FINDING LADY DEATH
(Death and Remembrance)

> Source: author's Google Drive doc "Finding_Lady_Death" (subtitle "Death and
> Remembrance"), pulled 2026-06-21. This is the author's ORIGINAL OPENING PROSE —
> the voice benchmark and the seed scene. It is canon for character/voice/premise.
> (Roughly the first scene/chapter; ~1,700 words. The rest of the book is to be
> built out from here with the pipeline, matching this voice.)

================================================================

**Finding Lady Death**

*(Death and Remembrance)*

Alice was nine years old the first time she saw Death. She was in the back of the stables watching all the grown-ups surround Mr. Danvers, who was laying on the ground. Realizing that no one was going to move so she could see, Alice looked for a clean spot to sit with her back to the wall. Once she had settled down, she murmured to herself, "I wonder what happened?" Alice then felt a breeze on her left, the wind moving her long black hair. Startled, she looks to her left and sees a young man now sitting beside her, also watching the proceedings. The man also had long black hair that fell over his clear blue eyes, and he had a sharp nose that reminded her of a hawk. He wore a black t-shirt with a white scythe painted on it, along with what looked like denim jeans. Alice stared at him, noticing the sadness in his eyes.

"Are you okay?" Alice asks quietly. The young man sighs and nods, "I will be." Then he turns to her, "but what about you little one?" Alice thinks for a minute then turns back to the adults in front of them. More people had shown up now, all dressed the same. They must be from the hospital, she thought. "Yeah, I just wish I knew what was going on. It seems like I'm always getting shut out of things." They lifted Mr. Danvers onto a stretcher and carried him out of the building, with the grown-ups following behind. Alice's father looked to where she was sitting and shook his head sadly before following the group out of the door.

"They are just trying to protect you," the young man said. "There are things about the world we live in that we try to protect the ones we love from for as long as we can." With that, the young man stood up and brushed off his pants. Looking down at her, he holds out his hand. Alice reaches for it, then notices that a miniature scythe hung from a bracelet on his opposite wrist. After letting him pull her up, he notices her staring at his wrist. With a rueful grin he pulls the bracelet off and hands it to her. "You always were a sharp one." Alice just stared at the bracelet, not noticing that the young man had walked away and she was now alone.

A few minutes later, her father stepped into the barn and saw her standing there while looking at something. "Alice?" he called from the doorway. With a jump she turned around. "You okay, Alice?" her father asked with concern. Alice slipped the bracelet on her right wrist, where it felt natural, and stepped over to him. "Yes Daddy, I'm fine." She waited to see if he would ask who she had been talking to earlier, but all he did was give her a hug and tell her to go help Mamma with lunch.

Now, as far as turning points go, little Alice did not realize just how significant her meeting of that young man was, yet as she got older she knew that something had changed in her that day. She was more aware of the pain and suffering around her. Whether it was another child that had been hurt or the neighbor who had taken too many sleeping pills, it seemed like she was always around when something went wrong or someone got hurt. After being in a car accident where she was the only survivor, she vowed to do her best to help other people. So with that newfound ambition, she enrolled in medical school to become a doctor — to try and help heal the pain it seemed she saw on a daily basis.

During her second week as a resident at the Brookwood Medical Center, she stepped into her last patient of the day's room and froze. There before her, sitting holding Amy Garber's hand — who had stage four cancer — was the same young man that had sat beside her so long ago. Startled, he looked up and recognition lit up his eyes. "Little one," he said softly so as not to disturb Mrs. Garber, "I can honestly say I did not expect to see you here."

The shock of seeing this man that she had halfway convinced herself she had made up — the only thing stopping her being the bracelet with the scythe she still wore constantly and never took off — was enough to make her drop into the nearest chair. "I almost made myself believe you weren't real," she murmured. "Dad never commented about you, which with everything that happened isn't surprising, but I never saw you again." Looking at him closely she asks, "Where have you been all these years, and what are you doing here?"

He starts to answer but she stops him with a raised hand. "Wait, before you answer. What's your name? Mine's Al—" The young man interrupts her, "Alice Haywood. Twenty-four, top of her class at Youngstown University. Although I can honestly say I didn't know you had taken a residency position here." Alice's jaw dropped. "How do you know that?" "I just wanted to make sure you were doing okay," he replied with a sheepish shrug. "My name's Acheron, by the way. My parents were, well, let's just say very Greek," he says with a boyish grin. "As for your other questions, I'm here because she doesn't have anyone to sit with her. No family, most of her friends gone. It's the least I can do, especially with the little time she has left."

Alice frowns. "The doctors are saying she has a few more months at least." Acheron smiles sadly down at the frail old woman lying in the bed, the steady beep beep of her heartbeat the only sound in the room. "No, her pain is almost over. Can you not sense it?" he asks her curiously. Alice looks at him with an odd look on her face. "Sense what?" Acheron looks at her as if searching for some hint of recognition. Finding none he sighs, then turns back to Mrs. Garber, murmuring to himself, "Maybe it's for the best."

Stepping closer she puts a hand on his shoulder. "What is it?" she asks. "What is it that makes you so sad?" Acheron lets go of Amy's hand and leans back in his chair, grinding his palms into his eyes. Acheron groans, "This is not going to be easy." He lowers his hands and looks at her with such sadness her heart went out to him. "Okay," he says to himself, "it's just like ripping off a bandaid." Standing up, Acheron steps to her. "I've got some things to tell you that are going to be hard, if not impossible, to believe." Combing his long black hair back with his fingers, he gives her a nervous smile and beckons her into the hallway.

Once there, Acheron looks at the nursing station with a thoughtful look on his face. "What is it?" Alice asks. One of the nurses turns when she hears Alice's voice. "Ma'am?" she asks. Alice shakes her head and the nurse walks off. Acheron turns to her with a perplexed look on his face. "I'm here thinking about how to show you something so you don't look like a crazy person, and it almost happens anyway." Acheron puts his finger to his lips and walks to the nurses' station. Watching him, Alice leans back against the wall. Acheron starts by talking into one of the nurses' ears, and no one reacted as if he was there. Then he starts waving his hands in the face of another. He looks over and sees Alice with her jaw open and a confused look on her face.

Walking back to her, he motions her back inside. Following him in, she stays by the door while he sits in the chair he had recently vacated. "I don't understand," Alice says at last. She wipes her hands on her scrub pants, her palms suddenly sweaty. "Why couldn't they see you?" Acheron sighs and leans back in his chair, crossing his legs. "You see, most people can't see me. If you're close," he said, indicating Mrs. Garber, "you might be able to, but it's not a guaranteed thing." Alice slides down to the floor with her back against the wall. "You mean if you're close to dying, don't you?" she asks with a shaky breath. "Does this mean I'm going to die soon?"

Acheron sits up with a look of shock. "No!" he says with as much force as he could. "No, you are not." Surprised at the forcefulness of his answer, she looks at the bed. "Then how can I see you?" she asks quietly. Acheron throws his head back and groans. "Gods, I'm not doing this right. Okay look — I'm Death. I help people over to the next plane of existence. A long time ago, I had just been a normal person. Well, as normal as someone could be that was obsessed with death. Then the War happened. The Ancient Gods fought for a VERY long time. So long, in fact, that they had abandoned their domains. The crops withered, storms raged, the sun didn't rise. All in all it was a mess. So it was decided that new Gods would be chosen to take the place of the ones currently fighting, which effectively stripped them of their powers."

"Who decided that?" Alice asked, curious despite herself. Acheron shrugged. "Beats me, but whoever they were had enough power to make it happen." "So what does this have to do with me?" Alice asks. Acheron grimaces, then continues. "Uhm, well, you see — I had just gotten married whenever the choice was given to me, if I had wanted to take up Death's mantle." "You were married?" Alice asks sharply, not understanding the sudden anger that blossomed in her chest at him being married to someone else.

Acheron holds up his hands in a placating motion. "Now hold on, let me finish. When the being approached me about taking the job, it sensed my reluctance to leave my wife, so it offered me a bargain. My wife would be able to join me, to become my co-worker in a way, if I could find her once she was reincarnated. So that meant we got to live a full life with each other, but once we passed on, I became Death — and then I'd have to find my wife, and then she would become Lady Death." Alice sat there stunned by his words, yet also able to hear the truth in them. "How were you supposed to be able to find her?" Alice asks softly.

Acheron points to the bracelet hanging off of her wrist. "It was made for you," he says just as softly. "You and I are the only ones who could wear it." Acheron touches his shirt, which had the picture of a scythe on it. When he pulled his hand back, he held a long black-handled scythe with white words engraved in the handle. On the blade there appeared to be an image of a man on a boat holding a lantern. Holding it with both hands, he lays it across his lap. "I have been searching for you for thousands of years," he said with a sad smile. "I just hope I haven't botched the explanation."

Alice just shakes her head, still staring at her bracelet. "So what happens now?" she asks. Acheron shrugs, then touches the scythe to his shirt, which makes it disappear back to where it came from. "At this point, it's up to you. You've got the bracelet now, so you're not going to die. It just depends on how you want to live your life, I guess."
