The Saeren Chronicle  
  
Viridia stared up at the large stone building in front of her. With its large iron gates and perfectly trimmed hedges, The Hazel prepatory school was an impressive institution. It was originally founded in 1735 by Hazel Greenwich, according to the brochure that her father had received. She shied away from the thought of her father and gripped the dark blue stone she had on a necklace. The stone had ancient symbols carved on its sides that seemed to glow, even in the bright sunlight. With a deep breath she started up the path beside her patron, who had brought her today. "You'll do well here I'm sure," He was saying. "They've trained the top light mages in this country since it opened. The fact that they selected you should be an honor. Yes, quite an honor." Viridia lowered her head. She had been so excited when she had seen Hazels sigil on the letter when she arrived home a few days ago. A few days ago... a lifetime ago it seems like now. "You'll be here for four years before transfering to another school, specialising in your area of interest," he went on, not seeing how distracted she was. "There's healing of course, but there's also intelligence, therapy, building. Why I'm not sure what all schools there are honestly," he says realising now how much he didn't know. With a frown he glances down at his young charge, "I know it's a big change, especially with what has happened, but it really is for the best." Viridia looks up at him and gives him the best smile she could muster, which unfortunately ended up looking more like a grimace, but she did try. They shortly reached the large double doors leading into the school. With a brisk knock, her patron stepped back behind her and placed his large hands on her shoulders as if afraid she would bolt once the door was opened. After a few moments, the double doors opened and a young woman, only a few years older than Viridia herself, stepped forward. "Can I help you?" she asks.  
  
glancing at Viridia curiously. Viridia's patron cleared his throat, "Ahem, yes my name is Aleric Porter and I'm escorting young Miss Viridia Saeren here." Reaching into his coat pocket, while keeping his other hand firmly on Viridia's shoulder, he produces the acceptane letter that Viridia had received in the mail. With a smile the young woman takes the letter and briefly scans it. Looking up she smiles at Viridia, "I see. Well Viridia my name is Amber Summers and I'm a fourth year here," Viridia smiles slightly in return, and nods. Amber motions them both inside, then closes the door behind them. Viridia tries not to imagine that it sounded like cell doors closing on her. "Most everyone has arrived already," Amber informed them as they followed her down a long hallway to their right, "We are just waiting on two more new comers." Relieved that she was not the last to arrive, Viridia starts looking around. There were many paintings on the walls of this lush carpeted hallway, some she recognized but many she didn't. Seeing her interest, Amber starts pointing out some of the paintings on the walls and telling her who had painted them. Once they reached the end of the hallway, they entered a large classroom with fifty chairs in front of a large desk on a raised platform. Sitting behind the desk looking through papers was the current headmistress, Lady Lightwell. Viridia recognized her from the brochure that she had read. Hearing them come in, The Headmistress looks up and nods then resumed looking through her papers. Amber then whispers to Viridia, "Take a seat up front" motioning to the last few empty chairs in front of the desk, "She has it set up like this so that all the new arrivals are sure to be able to hear everything." Viridia looks around, "Where will you be?" she asks. Amber smiles, "Don't worry, I won't be far. The fourth years are in the back. I'll come get you after orientation." With a wave of her hand Amber leaves Viridia and takes her seat in the back row. Turning back towards the front, Viridia makes her way down the aisle of desks.  
  
To the left and right of her are young girls talking excitedly to each other, having already become friends the previous year. With her head down Viridia slips into one of the empty chairs. "Hi, my name's Alice. Alice Pembreok. What's your name?" an excited voice says beside her. Startled Viridia looks to her right where a young girl with long blond hair and green eyes had moved to the chair beside her. She had a wide friendly smile that showed her slightly crooked teeth, and she had a smattering of freckles on her tiny nose. A bit on the heavier side, she was wearing the customary Hazel uniform which was a black vest with a white H embroidered over the right breast, a white undershirt, a dark brown skirt that came to just above her knees, long white socks that came above her calves, and black shoes. "My name's Viridia. Viridia Saeren." "I like your uniform," Viridia says. Alice smooths her skirt down, "I honestly think this vest makes me look more fat," she confides. Viridia shakes her head, "Not at all. I think it suits you." Alice smiles and scoots her desk a bit closer, the sound drawing the attention of the Headmistress. With a raised eyebrow she shakes her head then goes back to her papers. With a sheepish grin she leans closer to Viridia, "I'm so excited to be here. I'm a first generation mage," she confides to her. Ah, so that's it Viridia realizes. She doesn't want anyone to know that she comes from a family of non mages. Once mages had pretty much taken over the central government close to six hundred years ago, non mages were starting to get shuffled to the side. They were the last to be picked for jobs, they got paid less. In general their lives were harder than they would have been if they had been born with magic. So, with that it would make sense not to let anyone know she had non magical parents because then people might look at her differently. "How long ago were you tested?" Alice asks. She was of course referring to the mandatory testing girls had to take to be able to enter this Academy. "Yesterday," Viridia answered, "They came to Mr. Porter's house and tested me there." Alice looked suprised. "That seems a bit last minute." Alice says with a look of confusion on her face.  
  
Before she could ask anymore questions, Lady Lightwell stood and clapped her hands once. Immediate silence enveloped the room. Looking around at her young charges, Lady Lightwell walked to the front of her desk and leaned slightly against it. "First off, I would like to welcome each and everyone of you to Hazel's Academy. Whether you are a new student," she says noding at the front row, "or a returning student. I am very glad to see you. My name is Isolde Lightwell but you may call me Lady Lightwell or Headmistress. I became Headmistress here almost fifteen years ago, taking over for Mrs. Lear after she retired. Since then we have trained some of the top light mages this country has ever seen." Lady Lightwell then steps off the platform and starts slowly walking between the rows of desks. "This Academy is more than a school, we consider ourselves a big family. This is the reason we take so few girls a year, so that we can really bond together. When your time here has ended, you'll have made friendships that will last a lifetime." Lady Lightwell then goes back to her desk and takes three stacks of papers from it. "Here I have your class schedules and your room assignments. If there is any complaints with your roommate, then please come see me before the day is out," she then hands everyone their papers. "Fourth years," she says looking at the back row. "As you probably know, all of your classes are independant study but I still want a list of each of your courses you've decided on on my desk before the week is out. As to your room assignments, well," she smiles, "I'm sure that's something that can be worked out among yourselves." Turning back to the rest of her students, "Now, for the new students. We take two trips a year, the locations vary, but we will need your parents approval if we do not already have it. The outlying forest is teeming with magical creatures, from leprechauns, to mermaids, from unicorns to dragons. Venture into there at your peril. All first years are required to take the magical creatures class with Miss Greyhook. Also, the second and third floor of the library is restricted to first years unless given permission by our librarian or myself."  
  
Lady Lightwell glances at the clock on the wall, "Now, there will be no classes today, so everyone should head to their rooms and get settled in and unpack. Everyone's belongings have been sent ahead. For those of you that did not have the uniform before arriving shall find them in your quarters." With that she heads out of the room motioning Amber to follow her. With a final wave at Viridia Amber follows her out of the room. Viridia turns to Alice to see if she was ready to go and noticed that she was already looking at her class schedule. Curious herself, she takes out her own schedule. Introduction to magic was first after breakfast, then there is a short break followed by a History class. After that is lunch followed by an independant study, then Introduction to magical creatures. "I wonder where we can see the list of independant study courses," she wonders aloud. "It's outside the library," Amber answers her from behind. Viridia turns in suprise and smiles. "I didn't think I'd see you again for awhile," Viridia says. "Is everything okay? I saw Lady Lightwell pull you out." Amber nods, "Everything is fine, she just wanted to know if I had chosen a first year to sponsor or not." "What's that mean?" Alice asks jumping in to the conversation. Amber smiles at her, "Well as fourth years we are allowed to sponsor one first year student. Now normally that's done within the first two weeks of school, since the fourth years get to know the first years, but I've always been a bit impulsive," she admits with a grin, "So I decided to sponsor Ms Viridia here. If she'd like me to of course." Viridia looked stunned, "What does it mean to have a sponsor?" Viridia asks. "Well," Amber says holding up a hand ticking off points, "I can get you into more advanced classes, once you're ready for them. You'll have more access to the school's resources than normal. Also, I'll be able to help you prepare for the ranking trials." Seeing their blank looks Amber face palms. "Of course you don't know what that is. Okay, you know how light mages are ranked based on ability, skill, and knowledge? Well the school does the same thing. Once you finish here your school ranking will become part of your official file in the capital. So having help will definitely be a good thing."  
  
"Then why doesn't all of the fourth years sponsor a first year?" Alice asks. Amber grimaces, "Well mainly because if you mess up it hurts our ranking. For example, lets say Viridia gets into trouble. She hurts another student or stays out past curfew. Not only does she get into trouble, but I get into trouble too, because I'm supposed to be helping her. It's a two way street." Alice nods, "I can see how that would be a risk most people would not want to take." "Yep" Amber says, "But I beleive that Viridia is a good bet. Now, I know you need to go unpack and get changed. Meet me in front of the library tomorrow during your independant studies and we'll see what you'd like to do." Also, before I head off, don't be discouraged that no one has approached you about sponsoring you," she tells Alice, "Just do your best and I'm sure someone will notice you." With a smile and a quick hug Amber rushes off to join the crowd of fourth years heading out. "Shall we head out?" Viridia asks. Alice nods and gathers her bookbag into her arms, "I'm in the West wing, room 14." Viridia looks down at her room assignment and sees that they have the same room. Showing it to Alice, she grins. "At least I know my roommate," she says laughing. As they were some of the last ones to leave the room, they took their time making their way to their assigned room. The large marble staircase was veined in blue with what looked like pixies playing engraved in it. Turning to the west, they see other girls going back and forth between rooms chatting with each other. "Why does it seem like everyone has known each other for years?" Alice asks quietly. Viridia shrugs and walks to the door with a large number 14 on the brown door. Opening it she sees that the room is divided, with a single bed, a desk and chair, a small dresser, and a nightstand on each side of the room. There was a large circle window that takes up most of the wall between the beds. Seeing that each bed had suitcases on them, they moved to see who's suitcases were which. Alice was the first to reach the bed on the right. "These are yours," she says, moving to the other bed to unpack her belongings.  
  
Viridia moved to the bed on the right. On the bed were three suitcases, each one had her name embossed in gold on the side. Unzipping the top one she sees that it is filled with her uniforms and other clothes. After putting those away, she moves on to the next suitcase. Inside were books she recognized from her mother's personal collection, throat tightening she hurriedly zipped the suitcase back up and moved it to the side to deal with later. The third and final suitcase had sigils stitched into the fabric. Confused, she opened the suitcase. Inside, laying on black velvet was a silver rod with a rounded head on one end. Picking it up she sees a note written in an unfamiliar hand. "This is called a focus. To the best of my knowledge it has been passed down on your mother's side for a very long time. During your introduction to magic class you will be asked if you need a focus. Tell her no. Keep this with you always." Turning it over in her hands she looks closer at the silver rod. The rounded end had a sinuous line as if it were supposed to be two halves. The body had intricate scroll work as well as some writing in a language she was unfamiliar with. Zipping the suitcase back up, she slides them all under her bed, then changes into her uniform. Seeing that her skirt has a loop she can slide her rod into, she slips it in then sits on the bed. "You're kind of quiet," Viridia comments to Alice. Alice shrugs, "Just kind of hitting me that I won't see my family for four years," she says, "I've never been away from home longer than a few days." Alice turns to Viridia. "That's not childish is it?" she asks. Viridia shakes her head, "Not at all. It's understandable to be sad in your situation." Alice smiles and jumps back on her bed, sitting cross legged. After straightening her skirts she asks, "What about you? I bet your parents must be so proud." Viridia's eyes welled up at the mention of her parents and she turned away quickly. Seeing Viridia's distress she jumped up and ran to her apologizing, "I'm sorry I didn't know." Viridia just closes her eyes trying to get her emotions in check. After a few moments she turns back to Alice who has a worried look on her face, "It's okay. Both of my parents recently passed away. I fear I'm still not quite over the shock of losing them so suddenly."  
  
They both sat quietly for a few moments, with Alice still kneeling in front of Viridia. "Come on," Viridia says lightly patting Alice on the head, "Why don't we head out and see what the other girls are doing?" Just then a loud chime echoes throughout the building. "I wonder what that was for?" Viridia mutters. Alice and Viridia open their bedroom door and see the rest of the girls heading down the hallway. "Where's everyone going?" Alice asks one of the new girls that had a room on the left side of them. "One of the fourth years came by a few minutes ago and said we've got an emergency meeting in the dining Hall. I'm not sure what it's about though." With that the dark haired girl bounced ahead to catch up with her friends. Alice looked back at Viridia, "An emergency meeting already?" Viridia just shrugged and followed the rest of the students. The dining Hall was very large. It had double oak doors that opened inwards. Four long tables took up most of the room with one long table on the farside for the teachers and other staff. The fourth years were seated on the left and the first years on the right. Everyone was in their uniforms by this time, so everyone went to sit at their respective tables. Waiting quietly, no one was sure what to expect. A few minutes later, Lady Lightwell came through a door that was behind the teacher's table. Trailing behind her was one of the fourth years that Viridia vaguely remembered seeing during the orientation class. What shocked Viridia was the fact that she had bloody claw marks in her uniform and was now missing her left hand and part of her forearm. Cradling her arm to her chest, she stood to the left of Lady Lightwell with her head down. "Normally," Lady Lightwell began, "An incident like this would just be handled quietly. She would get as much healing as I or our head nurse could give her and we'd go about our day, because we all know there are things out there that would very much like to kill us. Right girls?" After everyone nodded she continued, "But in this case, the willful ignorance. No, the sheer stupidity of actually trying to bond with a fully grown dragon, with its mate not ten feet away, just boggles the mind. If his mate had not had any good relations with this school already, my dear you would have been killed, and there's nothing I nor anyone else could have done about it."  
  
Lady Lightwell turned back to the rest of the students. "Let me make this clear. For the people in this school that do well, we give you more freedom than most. The freedom to make your own choices, and yes even your own mistakes, but knowing your limits and just how far you can push them is just as important to learn." She motions to the quiet fourth year, "A dragon's bite and claws are coated with their magic, so they resist a lot of the healing we can do. Head to the infirmary, I'll be a long shortly." "Yes Lady Lightwell," the girl said softly before heading out of the hall. "Now, with that unpleasantness out of the way," she picks up a bell and rings it twice. A moment later, young serving girls start bringing in trays of food, placing them in front of each student. "After you eat, I expect each of you to head to bed. First bell comes early." With that she heads out the double doors, on her way to the infirmary. No one moved for a minute, then one of the second years reached for her plate and then so did everyone else. "That was crazy," Alice said between slurps of her soup, "I knew she said the woods were dangerous but I didn't expect that." Viridia nods, "I know, and it's just the first day. I hope nothing like that happens to us." Alice agrees. After dinner they made their way back to their room. After they both got ready for bed, Alice turns to Viridia, "I'm glad they made us roommates." Viridia smiles, "Me too." Alice then crawls under her blankets and within minutes is softly snoring. Shaking her head at how fast she was able to fall asleep, Viridia gets out the suitcase that held her mother's books. Slowly so as not to wake Alice, she opens the suitcase and pulls out her mother's spellbook. Opening to the first page she sees a family tree that goes back close to a thousand years. Shocked at how detailed it is, she starts reading the names. There are quite a few famous, and infamous, people in her lineage. Some notable light mages as well as dark. Flipping to the next page she stops, as it is a letter from her mother. "Dear Viridia, If you are reading this then I have passed beyond the veil. This book, as well as the focus that has been entrusted to you, has been passed down our family for generations. The spells within this book are a lot a like most normal spells out there, with the exception of the Dark magics. Those are completely unique. Feel free to add your own spells into this book so that when it is time for you to pass it on, you may pass on your knowledge as well. Light and Dark, good and evil. They are both sides of the same coin, it's all about how you perceive it. No matter the circumstances of my passing always know that I love you. May the spirits guide you and carry you home. Love, Mother." With tears in her eyes Viridia closes the book and holds it to her chest, curling up on her bed. Then, just like Alice she falls asleep.  
  
Chapter 2  
  
Early the next morning A loud chime echoes throughout the building, "Ugh," Alice says rolling over in bed and rubbing her eyes, "Must be breakfast time." Viridia stretchs and realizes she slept with the spellbook. Hurriedly she opens her nightstand and slides it inside. Closing the drawer she stands up and yawns. "I guess we'd better get started." After quickly getting dressed they hurried to the dining hall. Seeing the steaming food brought a smile to Alice's face, "I could get used to this," she says. Viridia shakes her head but follows Alice to the table where she loads up her plate with bacon, eggs, and toast. "What's our first class today?" Alice asks between bits of bacon. "Viridia waits a moment until her mouth is empty, "Introduction to magic I believe." Alice nods her head, "Sounds right." They sat in silence for a few minutes, both concentrating on their food. "I meant to ask yesterday," Alice says, "But with the whole emergency meeting thing I forgot. What's that?" she asks pointing to the silver rod that Viridia had on her waist. Reaching down to touch it, Viridia explains, "It's called a focus. It was my mother's." Alice nods and changes the subject knowing that Viridia's parents were a bad topic. "Are you going to see your sponsor today?" Viridia nods, "I'm going to head to the library after lunch. That way she can help me pick what class I'll end up taking." "Well if you hear anything you think I might like please let me know." Alice says. Alice then brushes her hands off on her skirt, "Ready for class?" Viridia  
  
hums and eats a few more bites of her eggs, then they both head to their Introduction to magic class. Held on the first floor on the opposite hallway that the orientation class was in, It was a cozy classroom. As they were some of the first students in the classroom they picked a table near the front. With a wide smile the teacher approached them. Mrs. Zoran had frizzy brown hair, pale blue eyes behind large glasses she had on a red dress that was a bit too big on her, as well as large silver hoop earrings. Stopping in front of them she introduces herself. "I'm Mrs. Zoran your teacher this year. I do hope you're ready to learn and have fun." With that she went to greet the other students who had come behind them. Alice and Viridia looked at each other and grinned. Yeah, this was going to be a fun class. After everyone was settled in and all introductions had been made, she stood before the class, "What is magic?" she asks them. "One of the girls, she had said her name was Beth, raised her hand. "Yes dear?" "Light?" she answered. Mrs Zoran shook her head, "Not quite." "Power" another said. Again Mrs. Zoran shakes her head. Viridia raises her hand, "Energy?" Mrs. Zoran smiles, "And what makes you say that?" Viridia thinks for a moment, "Well, we don't create magic, it's already there. We can't destroy it either. It just is." Mrs. Zoran smiles, "Well done. Now, other people may have different answers, and thats fine too, but from what we've gathered over the years is that magic acts just like energy. We don't create it, we can only harness whats already there. Now, that brings us to my next point. How do you harness your magic?" She looked around but no one raised their hands, "It's all right, I wouldn't expect most of you to know this yet." With that she takes off one of her rings and places it on the palm of her hand. "This right here is called a focus, or foci. This helps me channel the magic I have to its desired result." She then slips it back on and slowly waves a hand over the potted plants on her desk. Within seconds a very pretty red flower was blooming in the pot. "Now," she says taking off her ring and placing it on the desk this is what can happen if you do not use a foci." She then waves her hand at another pot and the pot  
  
exploded and green leaves were everywhere as well as the flowers. "Now, It's not always so extreme, some people can even learn to focus their magic without the help of a foci, but it takes years of practice. Not only does it help limit the output of your magic, but it helps solidify your intent. If your will is weak, so will your magic be." With that said she walks behind her desk and lifts up a box and places it on her desk. "For those of you without a foci, which I'd imagine to be most of you, come up here and get one out of the box. Don't just pick one at random, try and feel if it resonates with you. For those of you that have your own focus, please come show me so I can record it in your file." Viridia and another girl, whose name she remembers is Rose, walked over to where Mrs. Zoran was waiting. "Ah Ms. Rose, I take it you've got your mother's old focus?" she asks holding out her hand, "No ma'am, I actually use my grandfather's. I connected with it at a young age." Rose handed over what looked like a small hammer on a bracelet. "Hmm, Mrs. Zoran said examining it, "I can see you've made a good strong bond with it. Very well. You'll be excused from the rest of this class, as well as tomorrows, as we will be going over material you've already mastered. Feel free to use that time as another independent study period." Rose nods her head and puts the bracelet back on her wrist before heading back to her seat. Mrs. Zoran then turns to her, "Miss Viridia, may I see your focus?" Viridia slides her slim metal rod through the loop on her skirt and hands it to Mrs. Zoran. Mrs. Zoran turns it over in her hands admiring the craftsmanship, "Do you know what this says?" She asks Viridia pointing to the words on the handle. Viridia shakes her head, "No ma'am." Mrs. Zoran chuckles, "Well, I didn't expect you did. Not many would these days if I'm being honest." With a look of concentration, she held the rod out in front of her. With a gasp of exertion, she fed as much magic as she could into the rod. The half of the orb on top of the rod glowed pure white and the rod elongated into a walking cane. With a look of satisfaction she handed the now four foot cane to the astonished Viridia. "Just needed a good priming was all," she said with a wink. "I've got to say though, you've got your work cut out for you with that one. It wanted all the magic I had and was practically begging for more." Mrs. Zoran then turned towards  
  
the class, "Can anyone tell me why it was so difficult for me to use Miss Viridia's focus?" Rose raised her hand, "Because it's not attuned to you. If she had already attuned, or bonded with it you would not have been able to push any magic into it at all." "Very good Miss Rose, and that's why you have a free period tomorrow, as we will all be bonding with our foci tomorrow." Seeing that everyone had chosen a focus Mrs. Zoran instructed everyone to head back to their seats. When Alice sat down she excitedly shows Viridia a star that seemed to pulse with an inner light. There was a tiny chain on it so it could be worn as a bracelet, "It's so pretty\!" she says, "I wasn't sure what she meant by if anything resonates with us, but the moment I picked it up I knew that this was the one." Alice squirmed happily in her chair, "Ooh I can't wait until tomorrow." Viridia looks down at the new length of her foci, "I'm not sure if I'll be able to hide this." Alice looks at her oddly, "Why would you want to hide something that you'll be using all the time?" Viridia shrugs, "It was just a thought." They watched Mrs. Zoran going around to the other students, marking down their new focus. "Now," she said, "before I let you out to your break, I just want to make one thing clear. I know some of you are not completely happy with the focus you've chosen. During your fourth year, or if you have a sponsor that's willing to vouch on your behalf that you need it sooner, you will have a chance to make your own focus. Making your own is always better as it will be bonded to you during construction, and it will be suited to the particular magics that you will be using." With that she waves her hand at the door, causing it to slowly open. "Have a good day dears" she says cheerfully dismissing them from the class. Gathering up her books, she doesn't hear Mrs. Zoran approach her until she speaks. "Miss Saeren, If you would please stay behind for a moment please." Viridia looks to Alice who shrugs, "I'll wait for you on the bench by the Magical History class." Pulling her backpack on, Alice follows everyone out, glancing back one last time before softly closing the door behind her. Alone with Mrs. Zoran, she waits for her to speak.  
  
Mrs. Zoran settles herself into a seat beside Viridia and beckons her to sit. Once settled Mrs. Zoran begins to speak. "Knowledge is power." Viridia stares at her teacher not sure how to respond. "Do those words mean anything to you?" she asks Viridia staring at her intently behind her rimmed glasses. Viridia shakes her head quickly. "That is, and has been, the creed by which many dark mages have waged war over the years. Their belief that no information should be restricted, no laws is what to govern people's actions, only their own moral compass, should define their behaviour. That has led to many conflicts between light and dark mages. Now, I do not believe that knowledge is inherently bad, which is the reason I am about to tell you what your rod says. I will just have to trust you will know not to spread this information around because it could cause some people to start asking uncomfortable questions." Mrs. Zoran holds her hand out for the rod, and Viridia hands it to her. Tracing the script, she reads it aloud. "Knowledge is power, yet may whomever hold this rod, have the wisdom to use such power wisely." Viridia stares at the foci that's been in her family for generations, "So that's a dark magic focus?" she asks tentatively. Mrs. Zoran shakes her head still studying it. "Not entirely. It's made for someone with both sides of the gift. You see," she says straightening up her glasses, "There is a point of contention between most scholars. A portion of us believe that everyone, or most everyone, had both sides of the magic, back thousands of years ago. With all the wars and unrest, records from that time are scarce at best. What we do know is that the light mages of the time started a crusade to kill all the dark mages they could. As a result of that, entire family lines were wiped out. I personally think that's why we have so many ungifted nowadays. This focus," she says holding it up, "could very well be old enough to have been made during that time. I've never seen this material before and as I said the writing is actually from that time period." She hands the rod back to Viridia who clasps it with both hands. "That focus is probably the strongest one I've ever seen," Mrs. Zoran says, Viridia nods, "But what about it being able to be used by dark mages? I mean I don't want to get into trouble." Mrs. Zoran hesitates, obviously  
  
wondering if she should say anything more. Finally she leans forward, "Unlike many others I do not believe that being born with the darker side of the gift makes you a bad person. Just like being a light mage does not automatically make you a good person. It's all about how you use what you've been given. Now remember," she says holding up a warning finger, "Not many people here are as open minded as Lady Lightwell and I. So please use utmost discretion when discussing these matters with anyone else. Especially once you leave these grounds." Seeing that her point had been made, she helps Viridia to her feet, "Alright, you'd better run along to your next class, as I'm afraid I've kept you through your first break." Viridia thanks her for the new information on her focus and hurries to her Magical History class. Waiting outside the classroom while the rest of the students file in was Alice. "I was waiting for you," she said once Viridia reached her, "Is everything okay?" Viridia looks at her and nods remembering Mrs. Zoran's warning, "Everything is fine, I'll tell you about it later." Alice smiles and holds the door open for her so she can enter the classroom. If the Introduction to Magic classroom was light and airy with a feel of joy then this room was the complete opposite. The lights were dim. The blinds were down. It seemed like it had not been dusted in years. There were books stacked on the floors against the walls. Standing in front of the classroom was a rather large man in a brown tweed suit. His gray hair and long beard showed age that he did not carry well, not to mention his belly that hung over his waist. Once everyone was seated he began his speech. "Good afternoon ladies. My name is Mr. Cote and I will be teaching you about our peoples history. It is the hope of myself and Headmistress Lady Lightwell that by studying the people who came before you, you might be able to avoid the pitfalls and mistakes they made during their time on this planet. Now unless there are any questions please open your textbooks and read the first two chapters. Once you have read those, raise your hand and I will give you a small quiz. Once completed you may head on to lunch."  
  
with that he moved his large bulk and sat down on the wooden chair behind his desk. For the next hour all you could hear was the occasional cough or sneeze if they happened to breath in any of the dust that was floating around. The material was interesting, if a bit dry for Viridia's taste. The first two chapters dealt with some of the information Mrs. Zoran had just told her, even talking about the crusade to wipe out the dark magic users. Viridia took notes on things she thought might be on the quiz, such as the years of the wars and their economic repercussions. Once she was done, she raised her hand. Seeing her raised hand, Mr. Cote beckons her to his desk. "Are you finished?" he asks quietly so as not to disturb the other students. "Yes sir," Viridia answers. Mr. Cote nods his head and hands her a paper from the stack on the desk. "You may use what notes you have taken but you can not open the book. Understood?" Viridia nods, "Good. Once you have finished bring it to me and head to the dining hall for lunch." Viridia heads back to her desk and sees Alice getting up to get her quiz as well. They both share a smile as they pass. The quiz itself was not as bad as she had feared, there only being fifteen questions. The only question that truly stumped her was an essay question, Do you think the light mages of the time did the right thing in trying to wipe out the dark mages, and she had to explain her reasoning for her position. After wavering back and forth she finally answered that no she did not agree with the eradication of the dark mages. That yes some were truly what she would deem evil, yet that did not give the light mages cause to wipe out every dark mage they could find just because they had the potential to do evil things. After reading what she had written, she hurried and turned the paper in before she lost her resolve and changed her answer. With a quick, "I'll see you in a few" to Alice, Viridia made her way to the dining hall. The fourth years were lounging about when Viridia opened the large double doors. Stepping inside she drew looks from the fourth years who had turned to see who had come in early. Seeing that it was only Viridia, Amber waved the fourth years down. "She's with me," she says laughing. Getting up she sees that Amber has Viridia  
  
tied her long black hair into a ponytail and has put on some black fingernail polish. "You're here early," Amber says as she takes a seat near Viridia, "Did you finish your first history class already?" "Yeah, we only had to read two chapters and take a quiz. The fact we get to use our notes made it pretty easy." Amber nods, "Yeah, he seems like a stuffy old codger but he's alright. Honestly most of his classes bore me to tears," she says laughing. Viridia grins enjoying Amber's easy going manner. "Do you still have to take History as a fourth year?" "Nah, it's only a required class for first and second years. Unless you're planning on going for an archivist job there's really no reason to keep taking them." Amber then reachs into a pocket thats sewn into her skirt and pulled out a folded piece of paper. Handing it to Viridia, she explains what it is. "I copied all of the independent studies classes from what was posted by the library. Anything there that look interesting to you?" Viridia read through the list mentally crossing out ones like cooking class and administration. There were some that caught her eye though. Beginners magical theory and application, magical creature taming and magical warfare. What made the last class so interesting was that Lady Lightwell herself would be teaching the class. After showing Amber the ones that she liked, Amber bit her lip thinking. Amber looked back at the other fourth years then turned back to Viridia. "Would you mind skipping lunch today?" Amber asks suddenly. Viridia looks suprised, "Not really but I did tell Alice I would meet her here for lunch." Amber waved that off, "She'll be busy when she gets here anyway." Amber then calls to one of the girls in the group, "Hey Kari, don't forget to talk to Alice, I'm kidnapping Viridia for lunch." Kari waves her hand acknowledging Amber then resumed talking to her friends. "Come on," Amber says pulling Viridia up and heading towards the back of the dining hall. "Lady Lightwell's office is this way." Passing through the door in the back of the hall, they take a right down a narrow hall followed by a left which led them up some stone stairs. They soon  
  
came to a door that had steel bands seemingly woven into the wood with red runes carved on them. Amber knocked then waited until a voice from within told them to enter. Amber stepped in first followed closely by Viridia. Behind a simple wooden desk sat Lady Lightwell. The room itself was plain in comparison to many of the other rooms in the Academy, with very few pictures on the walls and there only being two items on her desk. One a very large white crystal on the right side, and a large onyx crystal on the left side. "How can I help you ladies?" Lady Lightwell asks setting down the paper she had been reading and taking off her spectacles. Amber clears her throat, "Ma'am, as you know I've chosen to sponsor Viridia Saeren. As having a sponsor normally grants some leeway in classes offered, I wanted to come to you to discuss her class schedule." Lady Lightwell looks at Viridia for a moment, her gaze resting on the necklace Viridia wore for a second, then nodded to Amber, "And what are your thoughts?" Amber then reachs over to Viridia and takes the paper with the independant study classes on them. "I know that History is a required class for first and second years, but I was wondering if she could substitute that class with Mrs. Zoran's beginner's magical theory and application. Viridia has told me she is not going for an archivist job upon graduation and honestly ma'am I don't see any other job that would use that information." Lady Lightwell looks at Amber in mild surprise, "Now Miss Summers, you know that substituting core classes is rarely done, even when students have a sponsor." Amber nods but hurries on, "That's true ma'am but a lot of the time the students themselves might not know what positions they may try for once they graduate. I honestly believe it will benefit her more having another class." Lady Lightwell leans back in her seat, "Yes well be that as it may, it is still unusual. Nevertheless, I'll allow it." Writing out a brief note, she then holds it out to Amber, "Give this to Mr. Cote so he knows to excuse her from his class. Now, is there anything else?" Lady Lightwell asks picking up her glasses. Amber looks at Viridia sideways then steps forward. "Yes ma'am, two  
  
things actually." Lady Lightwell smiles slightly and sets her glasses back on the desk. "Before you begin Miss Summers, be aware that what you may ask could cost you." Amber nods slowly. "I'm aware ma'am." Lady Lightwell clasps her hands on the desk, "You may proceed then." Amber steps forward, "I'd like to have permission to teach her how to summon a beast and tame it. I'm aware that there is a class on the list so she could learn it there, but frankly it would be a waste of her time to dedicate a semester in a class learning something I could teach in an afternoon. Not when there is another class she is more excited to take." "And what prey tell, does she want to take?" "Your Magical Warfare class actually." Lady Lightwell leans forward shocked, "That is a one on one class, not something that should have been on that list." Amber swallows hard, "I put it on her list personally ma'am, it's not on the master list." "And why did you do that? Knowing that it is something I've only taught fourth years." she says with a touch of anger in her voice. "Because she needs it." Amber says looking back at Viridia, "I know it'll cost to have her in the class and that's fine, but she's got no one and she needs to be able to rely on herself." Lady Lightwell looks closely at Viridia, then sighs. "Fine," she says in a tired voice, "Amber Summers you have used your one and only. There will be no more." Amber nods expecting this. "I'll send you to collect her when we are to begin training. As for the taming, you'll have to get the supplies from Ms. Locke, just tell her you have permission from me." With that Lady Lightwell puts on her glasses quickly dismissing them. Amber bows a little to her then ushers Viridia out of the room. Once they were down the stairs they slow down. "I don't understand what just happened," Viridia says putting out a hand to stop Amber, "What did she mean it would cost you? Why did you stick up for me like that?" Amber stops and leans agains the wall, clearly a bit rattled by the whole encounter with Lady Lightwell. "Well certain fourth years are sent on," she pauses uncertain how to explain, "jobs would be the best way I  
  
can put it. Being willing to participate in these jobs awards us some incentives. We also get one favor. It can be anything that's within her power to grant. That's what it cost me." Amber shakes her head as if she still could not believe she had done such a thing. "But why me?" Viridia asks, "Out of all the girls here, why pick me to help?" Amber looks around then pulls her into an empty classroom. Once she closed the door, she turns back to Viridia, "Because of that," Amber says tapping on Viridia's necklace. Pulling out a necklace that had been hidden in her shirt, Viridia sees that it has some of the same symbols carved on the shiny orb attached to the chain, that was on her necklace. Pulling a chair out of a desk near her, Amber sits. "When I was eight years old my mother was killed in a robbery gone bad. I was upstairs when they broke in. My father, having recently been injured at the shoe factory he worked at, was lying in bed. My mother was in the kitchen cooking dinner. When the four thugs broke in they quickly subdued my mother by hitting her on the head with something heavy. My father, hearing the racket going on downstairs, hopped on his remaining leg then made his way down the short steps. Seeing his wife lying there with blood around her head, he lost it he literally almost beat them to death with his bare hands. One of them ended up with a knife and cut my father on the leg then ran out the house. My father bled out before any help could come. I was hiding in my room then heard it go quiet. I eventually came out to find both of my parents dead. Now, as any child is wont to do, I tried to bring them back. I tried so hard I actually shattered my core, but I did it." She says with a small smile, "I wasn't able to bring them back for long, as I was unpracticed in that kind of magic. Or any magic really as how young I was, but I was able to tell them good bye. That's what mattered most to me. Now, I don't know your full story or how it happened, but I want you to have the chance to succeed to matter what's happened in the past." Viridia stares at Amber, almost not believing what she had heard, "So there's no way to fix a shattered light core?" she asks. Amber shrugs, "Not that I've heard but you've got to understand.  
  
This is not something you can just talk about with anyone. I got lucky that my neighbor was a dark mage and he knew Lady Lightwell. She's the one who helped me with this." She says holding up her necklace, "This is what allows me to still have a life, and for that I'll forever be grateful to her." Viridia stares at her necklace, "How did she help you with that? I thought it had to come from a family member." Amber grimaces then tucks her necklace back into her shirt, "Unfortunately that's not my secret to tell. If you wish to know that you'll have to ask her yourself." Looking at the small watch on her wrist, Amber rises. "Since it's technically your independant study time," she says with a smile obviously trying to lighten the mood after that heavy conversation, "Why don't I teach you how to summon your very own companion." With that Amber pulls Viridia a long until they reach a classroom with a large tree carved on the door. "Wait here a minute," she says then slips inside, softly closing the large door behind her. Ten minutes later, Amber opens the door quickly and motions for Viridia to follow her. Viridia steps across the threshold and sees seven students staring back at her curiously. Pulling her along Amber ignores the second years. The teacher, whose name is Mrs. Vicks, did not look amused at having her class disrupted. Viridia put her head down and followed Amber out the side door of the class room. Expecting another hallway, she was stunned to see they were now outside. Viridia looked back at the door leading into the school, "I didn't expect a classroom to have a door that leads right outside." She says to Amber. Amber shrugs, "It makes sense if you think about it, she teachs care of magical creatures, so having an easy way to take your class to the creatures is pretty important." Viridia follows close behind as they make their way to the dense forest. "Okay," Amber says stopping right on the edge of the forest. "First, take this," she then hands her a black metal bracelet. Viridia notices a blue one on Ambers left wrist. Viridia puts it on then waits for Amber to speak. "Okay, crash course on creature summoning. The number of creatures you can have bonded to you at one time varies from person to person. Not only does it depend on how much  
  
magical energy you have but the energy requirement of the creature itself, for example, lets say you bonded a mana toad. The energy requirement is normally not that high. Yet in return you get a magical boost, normally dependant on how old the mana toad is. The older the more magic you get back following me so far?" she asks Viridia. Viridia nods, "What happens if you try to bond something and you don't have enough magical energy to bond it?" Viridia asks. Amber looks seriously at Viridia, "Then it could kill you. Some, if not most, creatures will be able to tell if you're strong enough to bond with them. If you aren't they wouldn't want to put any magical strain on themselves attempting a bonding that could kill you. Because if one or the other dies, then for awhile the other creature loses the magical energy the bond cost until they can heal. That's why bonding creatures isn't something everyone does. For a lot of people the benefits far out weigh the risks. So\!" Amber says clapping her hands, "Let's do this." Amber strides into the forest, followed closely by Viridia. Once they reach a small clearing, Amber stops and motions for Viridia to sit on the stone bench in the center. Once Viridia was seated, Amber pulls a glass figurine of a bear out of her pocket. Tapping into the light magic of the amulet she wore around her neck, Amber pushs it into the bear. From there she broadcast it outward to the surrounding forest. She pulsed her magic three times then went to sit beside Viridia on the bench. "While we wait to see if a creature accepts my call, let me explain what I just did. First I tapped into the magic of my necklace, as I've never been successful with using my dark magic core to do this, then you push the magic into your focus. You use your focus to send pulses of magic out that has your desire to bond a companion. If any wish to bond they will follow the pulses back to the source." They waited patiently for a few minutes then they hear a snuffling sound coming from their right. From the bushs then came a large boar with large metal quills sticking out on its lower back. It had two large tusks that looked like they had been capped in metal. The boar kept snuffling  
  
around until it reached Amber. Smiling Amber kneels down in front of it. "Would you like to be my companion?" she asks the boar, staring into its eyes. The boar then leans forward and touchs its snout to Ambers outstretched hand. When the boar made contact with her hand, the boar dissolved into tiny motes of light which coalesced into a bright white charm on Ambers bracelet. Seeing Viridias wide open eyes, she laughs, "I can call him back but it would be rude to considering we just bonded. He needs some time to adjust." Amber stands up and brushs off her skirt. "And that's how you do it\!" She says brightly, "Don't be discouraged if no one answers your call though," she warns, "It takes some people many tries to find a suitable companion." With that Amber pulls Viridia to her feet. "Now it's your turn." She motions for Viridia to pull her focus out. "Remember," she says once Viridia has it in hand, "Broadcast your intent and your need. If there are any creatures nearby hopefully they will answer your call." Amber then settles herself on the bench that Viridia just vacated. Viridia looks at her focus. "What does she need?" she thinks. In her heart of hearts what does she truly desire? Thinking hard she clasps her focus in both hands. Without thinking she pours all of the magic at her disposal into her focus, causing the orb on the end to shine a brilliant white as well as a dark as midnight black. Amber, who was watching silently on the bench was suprised to see the young girl embrace her dark magic so easily. Not to mention the fact she was able to mix it with her own light magic. Viridia, not realizing she was doing anything out of the ordinary, gazed at her focus, seeing her gift for what it truly was. Embracing both sides of her magic she knows this is how it should have always been. Light and dark, two halves of a whole. With that realization, she feels a shifting within herself. A clear but subtle shift in her energy core. Feeling it easier now to feed her magic into her focus, she now sends out one long pulse of energy. "I need a companion who will always be my side," she sends out. "Someone who will not falter and will stay with me until the end." With one final push of her  
  
magic, she holds her focus high and gives a primal cry. The light then leaves the orb and Viridia sinks to the ground. Amber starts to rise to help the exhausted girl when she freezes. With a loud roar off to their right, Amber and Viridia look and see a large tiger looking creature with medium length bone white horns with tiny veins of blue running through them. The tiger itself is a magnificent looking creature. Its fur a mix of sky blue and lush forest green, with two elongated fangs that remind you of a saber toothed tiger. It is about seven feet long from nose to tail with huge paws that could crush bones in one swipe. "Don't move." Amber whispers quietly to Viridia, yet Viridia senses that the tiger means them no harm. Knowing on an insticual level that this majestic creature answered her call. Viridia holds a hand up to Amber and slowly stands on unsteady legs, unstable because of the magical drain on her body. Carefully making her way to the tiger, she kneels in front of him. "I heard your call young one. The creatures of the forest have decided to grant you a companion. I will be your protector for now. My name is Lor-ar of the pride of the sky, will you accept this bond?" Viridia stares shocked when Lor-ar kneels down before her. With a shaking hand, she places it on his forehead. The magical drain was significant enough to make her gasp aloud and force her to catch herself from falling forward. What was shocking though was that Lor-ar had not vanished as Ambers boar did. So she was suprised to now be staring very closely at his lightning blue eyes from only inchs away, which showed clear amusement of her actions. Amber, who had been watching from where she sat on the ground, slowly started to rise. Seeing movement, Lor-ar turned to her, "You have also bonded a creature of the forest," he broadcast to her, "Be sure to treat him respectfully or return him home." Amber nods, "Might I have your name?" she asks respectfully. "My name is Lor-ar." "Uhm, Lor-ar, I'm not sure how our headmistress is going to react when a full grown horned sylvan tiger comes into the Academy. You may have to go into the bracelet while she is indoors." Lor-ar raises a  
  
fluffy eyebrow, "and how am I supposed to protect the young one while I'm in there?" Exasperated Amber tries to explain she's in no danger in the Academy. Lor-ar was not having it though. After letting Amber try to convince him for a few minutes, he grew tired of the game. "Enough," he says, "I will not go in that trinket but I will compromise." He then shrinks down to the size of a housecat, if a quite large one. Stunned Amber stutters, "I didn't know you could do that." Lor-ar chuffs in amusement. "You were not meant to know." Licking a paw, Lor-ar waits for Viridia to recover. Viridia, who had been watching the exchange, finally recovered enough to stand, albeit a bit shakily. Amber rises and helps steady Viridia. "I think you should take a nap once we return. I'll inform Lady Lightwell of what's happened and talk to your magical creatures teacher so you'll be excused for today." Viridia nods mutely. They slowly make their way back to the Academy, with Lor-ar running ahead then racing back to them, acting as an overgrown kitten. Deciding not to bother Mrs. Vicks again they head around to the front of the building. The large double doors opened easily, allowing them to enter the spacious front hallway. Turning to Viridia, "Head on up and take your nap. If you happen to miss dinner I'll make sure they send some food up for you and Lor-ar." She says before hurrying off to Lady Lightwell's office. Viridia stares after her for a moment before trudging up the stairs, slowly making her way to her room. As the rest of the girls were still in class, Viridia did not encounter anyone on her way. Once she reached the room she shared with Alice, she paused. Alice, I hope she's not too worried about me, she thought. Pushing the door open Viridia starts to head toward her bed but Lor-ar jumped past her and landed lightly there first. "Come little one." he said patting the blanket with a paw, "Sleep and recover your energy. I will watch over you." With a grateful smile she crawls into the bed and cuddles up to Lor-ar. Within moments she was fast asleep.  
  
Chapter 3  
Her dreams were fleeting while she slept. None to be remembered once she woke. Coming up from her deep slumber, Viridia stretches accidentally pushing Lor-ar against the wall. Startled at touching something, her eyes snap open and she sees Lor-ar's fluffy face inchs from hers. "I wondered when you would wake little one. Your friend has already come and left you a tray of food." He said nodding to a tray that now sat on her nightstand. "Did they bring you food?" Viridia asks sitting up. "They did," He says, "I ate while your friend and I conversed." Viridia pulled the lid from the tray and revealed they had sent up meat and vegetable soup and a chunk of buttered bread. Taking a spoonful of soup she asks, "Are you talking about Alice or Amber?" "Ah," seeing her confusion, "Alice. The one you room with." Viridia nods, "How did she take seeing you in here?" "Very well actually. She was very informative." Viridia raises an eyebrow, "About what?" "About how your people are broken." Viridia swallows her soup, "Broken how?" Lor-ar jumps off the bed and starts exploring the room, nosing under the bed and in the closet. "They only have one side of the gift." "How does that make us broken?" she asks more interested in his answer now than the food in front of her. Lor-ar looks at her strangely, "How does it make you broken?" he repeats back at her as if to a child, "You can not have life without death. Nor light without Darkness. Your people were made to have both, as is most higher life forms. Some of the lower beasts may only have one or the other but that is through no fault of their own." he says. "They were made that way. You were not." Viridia struggles to think through all of this, "How can you know this?" she asks him. "From what I've heard the people who had both sides lived thousands of years ago." Lor-ar gives her a cat-like grin, "Are you saying I can not be thousands of years old little one?" Viridia shakes her head, "I mean I guess anything is possible," she says, "But I didn't think cats lived that long." Lor-ar rolls his eyes, "Cats might not but I am a sylvan and we live close to five hundred of your years. I myself am only three hundred but I have obtained the  
  
position of spirit walker. That's when I became -ar. Lor is my name -ar is my title, so Lor-ar. It is through being a spirit walker that I am able to know what the past was like." Viridia sits there quietly finishing her soup, thinking about what he had said. "If we are broken, is there no way to fix us?" she asks finally. "You are not broken," Lor-ar says, "Your people are. As for fixing them, that I do not know. If it is possible, I will ask questions once we return to the forest." Choosing to clarify both statements he had made she asks, "What do you mean I'm not broken? That's why I have this," she says showing him the amulet she wore around her neck, "And what do you mean once we return to the forest?" Lor-ar jumps on the bed beside her, "Can you not see other's cores?" he asks her curiously. "Like this?" she asks showing the amulet again. "No," he says batting it out of her hand, "Not that bauble, the core in here," he says touching his forhead to her chest. Viridia looks at him in shocked silence. The mere fact that something like that was possible, that you could see something so intimate about a person without them knowing astounded her. "No," she says bending down to look him in the eyes, "And I don't think others can either. Can you teach me?" she asks him excitedly. Lor-ar shakes his head in sadness, "Your people are much diminished. Yes I will teach you little one, then we must get going." Confused she starts to ask where they have to go to but before she can Lor-ar headbutts her softly. Holding his head to hers. "Look into my eyes," he tells her. Viridia looks deeply noting the lightning bolts flashing in his irises. "Feel the energy I'm poring into my eyes, the layers of magic I am coating them with. You must coat them both with both sides of the gift." Following his mental instructions she is soon able to see the magic around her as if it glowed. Looking down at Lor-ar she sees that his whole body is infused with magical energy not just his core which looked like the orb on her staff, but lit up with both dark and light magic. Curious to see what her broken core looked like, she looks down at  
  
her chest. Suprised she lets out a gasp. Her core looked just like Lor-ar's except it was easily triple the size. Her mother's core, which she wore around her neck was a pale flame to the raging inferno of her own magic. "I don't understand," she tells Lor-ar, "How can I have a core like yours?" Lor-ar pads to the night stand and tapped her focus. "This. This helped you consolidate both cores you had into one full core. This is from the old days when some unfortunate people were born with their cores split apart. So some people came up with a way to help them merge their magic back together. For it to work though you have to nearly drain yourself of magic, pouring it all into it, before it feeds it back to you. Which is why you felt so drained yesterday. Not only did this drain you, but your bond to me did as well." Viridia stops for a moment, "I seem to remember something shifting within me when I sent out my magic, I felt complete." "Exactly," he says, "That was your core aligning. Now," he says jumping off the bed and padding to the door, "We must hurry to the forest. Already the moon is rising so there is little time." Startled Viridia looks out her window noticing the half moon that was starting to appear in the sky. "Do you know where Alice could be?" she asks Lor-ar as they make their way to the hallway. "She told me she has what you call a sponsor now. She talked at length, quite excitedly as a matter of fact, that it was all thanks to the young woman who was with you when we met. She said she had a meeting with her tonight and that she would be back late." Viridia and Lor-ar did not meet anyone on their way out of the school. Once outside Lor-ar shakes himself and returns to his full size. "Come little one, get on my back, we have a ways to go and not long to arrive. Do not worry, you will not fall." Lor-ar kneels down and allows Viridia to climb on his back. Once she was settled, he stood up and it seemed like static electricity locked her into place. "Do not be alarmed, it is for your protection." With that he leaped into the forest at a dead sprint, rapidly dodging trees and jumping over bushs and overgrowth. It was truly as if they moved like the wind. A time later, Viridia did not know exactly how long, they came  
  
to a clearing. It was in front of a wall of rock that was most likely the mountain she could barely see from her bedroom window. There was a quite large cave in front of them that had flame scorch marks around the entrance as well as on the surrounding area in front of it. There were two dragons, one a brilliant scarlett red that she could see by the large fires on both sides of the caves, the logs they had ripped apart burning furiously. The other dragon was just as striking in that he was pitch black. If there had been no moon and no fire you could not have seen him. On the ground in front of them lay a very large egg that the mother continuously breathed scarlett fire over, with occasional black fire from the father. "You cut things close Lor-ar." A loud voice boomed into their minds, "You are lucky that he has not hatched yet. It could happen at any moment." Lor-ar releases the electricity from his body and kneels down so that she may slide off. "My apologies Drake, I was waiting on her to recover." The dragon, Drake, snaked his head forward to look at Viridia, "Doesn't look like much," he says gruffly. The scarlett dragon, never stopping her fire, swipes at her mates tail. With a grunt he whips his head around to look at his mate, "What? Am I not supposed to comment on our son's future companion Varissa?" "You're being rude to the poor girl." she says admonishing Drake. Drake looks back at Viridia and gives an audible sigh, the air that leaves his mouth smelling like brimstone. Drake starts to walk forward, slowly shrinking down until he was in the form of a man, still taller than she but wearing tan breeches and a white shirt. He then motions for them to come sit by the fire. Drake runs his hand through the fire deep in thought. Turning, he looks to Lor-ar, "Have you told her why she is here?" he asks. Lor-ar shakes his head, "She is as a new born babe to her magic and the ways of our world." Drake sighs again then looks to his mate. Varissa motions for him to get on with it. Drake turns back to the fire. Then he begins to speak. "Many years ago when beasts and humans lived in harmony they made  
  
a pact. To protect each other. To come if called by a truly great need. Throughout the years, calls have been sent out, by both sides to help in a struggle against enemies. Yet gradually the humans and beasts drifted apart. Animals were just considered pets," he said with disgust, "Then they hunted us for sport. After a time we left to our own kingdoms. The pact nearly forgotten. Until today." he turns to Viridia, "Your magic sent out a need so great that the pact answered. We had no choice in the matter. Our son," he then points to the egg, "Will be bonded to you after he hatchs. For that is the only way to bond a dragon. Those few moments after birth. His magic will then be tied to yours, and yours to his. That is why it seems like I am being rude. I am losing my son." With that he strides away from the fire, changing back into his dragon form, he takes flight high into the sky spewing jet black flame. "It is not your fault," Varissa tells Viridia, "Our last little one did not survive the last war. We have been trying for a few hundred years for another one but it gets harder the older you get." Viridia looks to the egg, "Uhm, how old are you?" she asks. With a choking laugh that made her momentarily stop her fire, "I'm close to five thousand years old. Drake there is close to six thousand. The pact hit us so hard because we were some of the original participants of the pact. It's not like other creatures where the magics hold might have lessened." All of a sudden a loud crack echoes throughout the clearing and a piece of the shell falls away. "Quick," Varissa says stopping her flame, "Help him with the egg. You must be the first person he sees." Rushing to the egg she sees a multicolored dragon snout pushing its way out of the egg. Pulling pieces free she freezes when the dragon's eyes meet hers. In that moment her life changed. She could not explain it. The new sensations she had. Her senses seemed sharper, and where she had to consiously keep her new magic sight going, now she was able to do it without thinking. Standing there staring at this newborn dragon she called out a name. "Raizen." Raizen bobs his head at his name. Helping him out of the egg he crawls to her. "The bond is complete" Lor-ar tells her from beside her. Viridia picks him up and takes him to Varissa  
  
who had changed into her human form. A tall slender woman with pale skin and flaming red hair in a black dress. She looks lovingly upon her child. "Be sure to tell that headmistress of yours if anything should happen to my son while you are there, her and that school will be burned to the ground." Viridia gulps but promises that she will pass on the message. Handing the squirming dragon back to Viridia she looks to the sky where Drake was still flying around agitated. She sighs then turns to Viridia, "I must tell you something then go and try to calm my mate. The bond you now share is not like that imitation," she says pointing to Viridia's bracelet. "Your life force is now tied to his. You will experience changes in the coming days, don't be frightened of them. If you have any questions I'm sure Lor-ar can answer them." she touchs Raizen once more then walks away. "I would head back now." she calls over her shoulder. Varissa then changes back into her dragon form and joins Drake in flight. Lor-ar guides them to a path leading into the forest. Viridia looks back once more at the two dragons breathing fire into the air. Kneeling down once more, Viridia climbs onto Lor-ar, with him explaining that she will be locked in place but not Raizen because he doesn't want to frighten him by him not being able to move. So she holds on to Raizen, then they take off. They head back a bit slower than before, not getting back until the moon was going down, the sun just peeking over the Horizon. Once they exited the forest Viridia sees Lady Lightwell standing in front of the school watching them. Unfrozen now, she slips from Lor-ar's back still cradling Raizen. Lady Lightwell and Viridia stare at each other with Lor-ar still standing beside Viridia. Shaking her head Lady Lightwell steps forward, "Do you have any explanation as to why two very old, very powerful dragons seem to be in an agitated state tonight Miss Saeren?" Viridia looks down at Lor-ar, "There is magic involved that she is not permitted to discuss Lightwell." He says softly stepping forward, "Do not punish the young one for actions she did not know the consequences of." Lady Lightwell pauses for a moment. "I thought sylvan tigers had gone extinct?" she queried lightly. Lor-ar shows  
  
his teeth, "They've tried and failed many times." he replies. "Hmm. Well," she says to Viridia, "I expect to see you in my office first thing in the morning. You are excused from all classes tomorrow. I will also alert the kitchen staff to your new companions meal requirements." she adds, "Now head to bed." Viridia nods deeply to the headmistress then hurries to her bedroom. Not wanting to wake Alice, she motions for Lor-ar to be silent and he raises one eyebrow at her, "Really? I think out of the both of us I am far more capable of being silent." Now that Lor-ar is back in his smaller form they creep into the room. Laying Raizen on the bed softly, he then curls up and is fast asleep. Viridia then crawls beside him with Lor-ar on the end of the bed. The excitement and adreniline finally leave her and she is able to sleep. Dreams of flying through the clouds are interupted by a loud exclamation of "Dragon?\!" Viridia blearily opens her eyes to see Alice staring at Raizen, "yes it's a real dragon," Lor-ar was trying to explain to Alice. Seeing that Viridia was now awake he broadcast his mental thoughts to her as well. "I'm trying to explain to young Alice here that your dragon is not a pet but a true bonded companion." "I didn't say he was a pet," she replies pouting a bit, "I just said I'd like a pet like that." Lor-ar rolls his eyes, "Which is basically calling him a pet." Viridia yawns and stretchs scratching Raizen behind his tiny horns. Raizen's wings start flapping showing his enjoyment of the attention. "I'm sorry that I have not been around much lately," Viridia tells Alice, "How has everything been going with you?" she asks. Alice squirms in excitement, "Oh I have some news\! I've got a sponsor now" she says excitedly. "One of the fourth years heard I was a first generation mage, and since she is one herself, she offered to sponsor me. I've even written to my father telling him the good news." Viridia smiles, "That's awesome. Has she given you any advice as to your independent study?" Alice nods seriously, "She thinks I should study in the medical wing. Says it would suit my personality." Viridia laughs, "Well I'm sure you being cheerful with the patients will definitely help. Is healing something you are interested in though?" she asks  
  
Alice shrugs, "I've never given it much thought honestly. I helped my grandmother with my grandfather when he got sick. So it's not like I don't know what I'm getting into. Magic can not heal everything." Viridia nods. A knock sounds at the door. Alice and Viridia look at each other, not knowing who could be at the door. A moment later Amber opens the door and peers in. "Good you're up," she says when she sees Viridia sitting there, "It's time for your meeting with Lady Lightwell. Alice," she says turning to her, "Your sponsor needs you to meet her at the medical wing, they've brung a patient from the Haven hospital near susexx. She says it will be a once in a lifetime oportunity for you to see something, so I would hurry." With that Amber retreats from the room closing the door quietly behind her. Alice and Viridia Both start getting ready. Leaving out the door a few minutes later, Viridia wishs Alice luck. Alice waves and smiles then heads to the medical wing. Viridia, with Raizen on her shoulders curled up and Lor-ar padding along beside her, make their way to Lady Lightwell's office. Standing in front of Lady Lightwell's door Viridia can see the magic that was imbued into the carved symbols on the door. Viridia knocks on the door and waits to be summoned inside. A few minutes later she hears a muffled, "Come in." from behind the door. Slowly Viridia opens the door and steps in. Lady Lightwell is standing in front of the lone window in her office, the view one showing the mountains and the forest. Today she had on an emerald green dress with blue shoes. "I think it's time you and I had a chat." Lady Lightwell says not turning from the window. "You have been here three days now. In those three days you gotten your sponsor to help you get into a magical warfare class, A class normally reserved for fourth years, and her using her one favor to do it. Then Not only do you bond a Horned sylvan tiger, which no one has done in quite a long time, you then  
  
Come back True Bonded to a Dragon\!" she exclaims, "A dragon whose parents would have no problem turning this building to ash." Lor-ar raises his paw, "Actually Raizen's mother said that if she hears about anything happening to him she was going to burn you and the school to the ground." He says helpfully. Viridia frowns at him. Lor-ar just tilts his head, "You were told to pass on the message," he reminds her. Viridia then rolls her eyes. "That's what I'm talking about," Lady Lightwell says pointing to Lor-ar momentarily losing her composure, "I have spent years building this place up as a refuge and school for young girls and in three days the safety of the school has already been compromised." Lady Lightwell huffs for a minute then walks behind her seat to sit down. Lady Lightwell takes off her glasses and masages her temples. "Miss Saeren, What is it you want from this school?" she asks once she sits back in her chair. Viridia sits there thinking about everything she has learned these past few days, especially things about herself. "I want to be able to protect myself," she says, "and to help others." Lady Lightwell nods, "Others as in general or do you have specific people in mind? Your History teacher told me about your rather controversial answer regarding the treatment of dark mages." Viridia stares at Lady Lightwell trying to decide how best to answer her question. Deciding honesty was the best course, "I do not agree with the treatment of Dark mages in general. Yes some are guilty of crimes but I find the act of killing every dark mage just because they have the capability to do bad things abhorrant. Just being a light mage does not make you a good person." With that said they sat staring at each other. Lady Lightwell because the young lady in front of her had the courage to speak the truth as she believed it, and Viridia because she felt she may have said too much. Lady Lightwell finally nods, acknowledging her well thought out answer. "If only more people could see things the way you do." she says, "Every day more dark mage families are killed just because they are different." "Could they not get a light core like you did for  
  
Amber?" Viridia asks, Lady Lightwell grimaces, "That's not exactly a secret that I want getting out." She tells her, "besides it's not like I can help every single family. I try to do as much as I can and still remain in my position here." "You mean the jobs the fourth years are sent on?" Lady Lightwell laughs, "By the Light girl did Amber tell you everything?" Viridia shrugs self consiously, "I'm sorry, I didn't exactly ask her what the jobs were." Lady Lightwell shakes her head, "No it's fine. With the way she was acting towards you I figured she would recommend you to me eventually. Yes the jobs I send the girls on are to help with the dark mage resistance. Most of it is raiding supplies going to the capital but occasionally there are rescue missions if we hear about the families in time. Jasen, The young man heading up the resistance is one of the most powerful dark mages I've ever heard of, Is close to declaring all out war on the light mage government. He has been trying to convince the High chancellor to meet with him but he will not. I truly do not think the High chancellor realizes how big of a problem he will have on his hands if Jasen truly decides to start fighting back. They killed his little sister you know." Viridia gasps her hand flying to her mouth. "Yes, she got caught up when they raided a dark mage families house she was visiting. The official story, from the light mages, is that a full cohort of dark mages, which is thirty two, wiped out every light mage in the town, whether they were part of the raid or not. When in actuality Jasen lost it and killed everyone by himself when he found his sisters burned body. He feels guilty about losing control that day. That is why he is doing his best to sue for peace. If they will not have peace then he will definitely bring war." "What would that mean for us?" Viridia asks, "I would pull the dark  
  
mage girls that are at this school and we would retreat to one of the resistance camps. More than likely the main camp where Jasen resides as that will be the safest place for you girls. The most important thing for you to worry about right now is your classes. Learn as much as you can, especially with Mrs. Zoran. She's a light mage but sympathetic to our cause." Viridia nods. "Good, now it should be time for your class with her. Be sure to tell her you were with me so you do not get into trouble." Dismissed Viridia Rose from her chair and headed to her class. Mrs. Zoran could tell that Viridia had a lot on her mind, so after thanking her for telling her where she had been, she motioned for her to take a seat. Viridia barely paid any attention in class, her thoughts on what Lady Lightwell had told her. About the war, the role she could have to play in it. Seeing she was distracted Lor-ar jumps in her lap, "You aren't going to learn anything if you stay in your head all day." Viridia glances around, then whispers softly, "I just keep thinking about what she told me." "What, about you needing to pay attention in class?" he asks sardonically, Viridia mock glares down at him, "No Not that. About how I might have to be a part of the war." Lor-ar settles down then glances up at her, "Would you rather not be?" he asks, "Would you rather have other peoples actions affect your life without you being able to stop them?" Viridia shakes her head, "That's not it. I'm only fourteen, What do I know about being in a war?" "Ah, but you feel you are old enough to have opinions right?" Lor-ar asks. Viridia nods. "But you are not old enough to defend those opinions?" he asks. Viridia pauses thinking, Lor-ar goes on, "I agree that war is not for children. War should not be for anyone. Yet if there can be no peace then there must be war. Besides, you will have me and Raizen with you. It's not like you will be alone." Viridia nods, "That's true." Viridia did her best to pay attention to the lesson after that but she felt that she just could not help being absentminded. Throughout her other classes she took notes as best she could until dinner where she suprised Alice by asking her if she would like to meet Raizen's parents. "Can I?" she  
  
asks excitedly. So with that they both walked to the forest where Lor-ar allowed them to ride him to visit Drake and Varissa. They soon reached the clearing and Lor-ar let out a mighty roar. Startled they both looked at Lor-ar. "What?" he asks, "Did you really want to go inside their cave not knowing if they were home?" In answer a long stream of ruby red fire came streaking out of the cave. A few moments later Varissa came out in her dragon form. "Little one\!" she exclaimed once she saw them, "You've brought my baby back." Raizen, seeing its mother, made a little flying run to his mother. As his wings were not strong enough yet for prolonged flight, he flapped in the air for a few seconds before landing and running some more. Once he reached her Varissa curled up around him. "Oh I've missed you." Varissa snakes her head towards where Viridia and Alice still stood. "You can come over you know, I'm not going to bite." Viridia laughs and makes her way over to them watching as Raizen starts to climb on his mother. Alice follows nervously behind. "Is Drake not around?" Viridia asks once she reachs them. "No," Varissa says lifting Raizen up by a foreleg then placing him on the ground. Not to be detered he climbs her tail again making his way carefully up her back, "He's out hunting. He won't be back until Nightfall more than likely. "That's your mate?" Alice asks. Varissa looks at her, "Yes he is. Who are you little one?" "My names Alice," she stammers, "I live with Viridia." Varissa nods then peers closely at her then sighs, "Ah another broken one," she says sadly. "I do feel for your people." Varissa says, "but I do not know of a way to make you whole." Alice looks at Viridia in confusion then Viridia explains that most people had both sides of the gift in the past. Alice gaped at her, "Why don't they teach us that in school?" Alice asks. Viridia shrugs, "I guess they don't want everyone to know that technically everyone used to be light and dark mages. You would probably be branded a hoetic if you tried to tell the government that, and branded a dark mage sympathizer." Alice just shakes her head, "We shouldn't even be at war with them, she says, "It's many  
  
of the Light mages that are the problem. A lot of the dark mages just want to be left alone." Suprised at Alice's words she asks, "Do you know any dark mages?" Alice nods, "I know a few, they lived near the apartments where I lived. The light mages in the building knew about them but they covered for them. They were good people. I don't know why the government wants to keep pushing things so far." "Because they want us to focus on the dark mages instead of the other problems we have." Alice nods smiling in amusement of Raizen's antics. "I saw the morning paper and The dark mage resistance is trying to call for peace talks again but the High chancellor is doubtful a meeting will happen, yet he is quoted as saying 'anything is possible under the light'. Varissa looks at both of them with a perplexed look on her face. "If both of you do not like the current ones in power, why not work to change it? As you've seen, just talking changes nothing. There must be action." Alice and Viridia look at each other, clearly not expecting her to suggest that. "I mean," Viridia starts, "I don't see how we could possibly help. We are underage, untrained, and we would have no way of finding the resistance even if the other things were not taken into consideration." Lor-ar chuffs in amusement. Viridia glances at him not understanding. "Young you may be but you can be trained," Varissa says, "All it takes is a willingness to learn. As for having no way to find the resistance, Have you ever thought about asking for help?" Viridia looks back and forth between Lor-ar and Varissa, "Ask who?" she asks, "I don't know anyone in the resistance." Varissa rolls her eyes, a clearly human expression on her dragon face, then raises a large ruby claw and rips a hole in the air beside her. Through the whole she can see trees and curling smoke above the treetops, suggesting campfires. "The resistance's main camp is about half a mile straight on." she says. Lor-ar even looked stunned at this display of power. Alice stepped forward tentetively and put her  
  
hand through the portal slowly. Not seeing it come out the other side, she retreated quickly to where she had been standing. "I didn't know portals were possible, except by very expensive scrolls." Alice said, "I heard it takes an insane amount of magical energy to make, that's why they are so hard to come by." she looks at Varissa in awe. "It actually takes both sides of the gift to make a portal," Varissa says, "The light mages just make everyone think that they can do it themselves. That's why they make scrolls, that way no one can see how it's made." Viridia looks at the portal with fasination, "Does that mean," she starts. Varissa interupts her, "Yes, but you must be careful. There has been many a mage to make a portal and let something through accidentally. You must come back at nightfall when Drake is here. Not only will he want to see his son but he is a better teacher than I." Varissa then makes a movement with her claw and the portal snaps closed, disappearing from view. "Now," she says standing and stretching. "I'm going to nap. Lor-ar please give young Viridia some instruction of how to use her new core before tonight. Drake will not want her to be completely ignrant of her magic if he is to show her how to open a portal." Varissa turns then after giving them both a slight nod. Raizen, exhausted after playing has now curled up at Viridia's feet. Lor-ar decided they could all use the exercise, so they walked back to the school. On the way, Lor-ar gave them a brief overview of magic in general, and where he believed it came from. Once they returned to the school, Lor-ar directed them behind the building where there were benchs set up and a large stone water fountain with dolphins seeming to spit water into the bottom of the pool. Once they were seated, Lor-ar asks Alice if she would like to learn this as well. Alice shrugs, "I've got nothing else to do at the moment besides homework." Looking at the sun, "I do have to meet my sponsor in a bit though." Lor-ar nods, then sits on his haunches, "Using both sides of the gift is different than only having one side."  
  
he begins. In a comical sight he leans back so only his back two legs were on the ground. Holding up both paws, a pitch black flame came into existance over his left paw followed by a pure white flame over his right paw. Never having seen actual dark flame before Alice stares transfixed. "Lor-ar extinguishs both flames. "Look at my magic as I do that again," he instructs Viridia. He then slowly summons the twin flames again with Viridia taking note how the magic swirled out from his core into two distinct streams. "Now, pay attention as I combine the flames." Ever so slowly he pushes the flames together until they become one, yet the two streams were still feeding it. The flame was now a brilliant white with intermitant flashs of the purest cheapest darkness. Viridia was stunned, "I did not think the flames could survive being combined I thought for sure one would consume the other." Lor-ar shakes his head, "Not if you have balance. Every act of magic you do, whether it be making the magic fire or even to shroud yourself from sight, do ing it with both sides of the gift will make it stronger than only one side or another. Truthfully, shadow walking, which is similar to portaling, really needs both sides of the gift to work as the mages of old did, but the dark mages have figured out a limited form of it from very old texts. Not having the light side tho means that they can only go short distances within their sight. You could pretty much go any where as long as it was in shadow and you had been there before." Lor-ar then claps his paws together, putting out the flame, then drops back down to all fours. "Now," he says to Viridia, "I want you to practice splitting your core as I did, dark to your left hand and light to your right. Do not try to summon anything, merely have the magic ready at your disposal." For the next two hours, even after Alice had left for her meeting, she practiced keeping her magic summoned at the ready, with Lor-ar giving suggestions. "You must always be ready," he says when she asks why its better to have it ready than to just call it when she needs it. "You may need it at a moments notice. Especially if you go to war." seeing  
  
  
that the sky was starting to darken, he stops her training, although he told her to keep her magic at the ready from now on. "Remember," he says, "I can see if you do." The sky was fully dark by the time that Viridia, Raizen, and Lor-ar reached the dragon's clearing. Drake was sitting in front of the fire in his human form seemingly deep in thought. Hearing their approach he raises a hand in acknowledgment. Raizen flaps down from Viridia's shoulders. He then runs on all fours to Drake. He smiles down at Raizen and strokes behind his small horns while Raizen curls up in front of the fire. They all sat in front of the fire for a time enjoying the silence of the night. "Varissa has told me of your problems," Drake says finally. "She says you would like me to show you how to create a portal." Viridia nods slowly. Drake says nothing for a few minutes, still staring into the fire. He seemed calmer and more somber than the last time that Viridia had seen him. Drake seemed to be struggling with some internal debate. "Portal creation is rarely used these days. At least by humans," Drake corrected himself. "The distance that someone can create a portal to depends not only on their personal store of magic but their knowledge of the place they would like to go. What you humans call portaling is a shadow of what it really is." Drake holds out his right hand in front of him, the palm facing up. Viridia watched fascinated as his magic flowed in a steady stream down his arm where it coalesced into intricate shapes above his hand before it created a portal the size of a dinner plate. Viridia could see dessert sand in the hole with a bright sun shining through. Drake left the portal there and continued talking, after putting his hand down. "I have debated with myself since Varissa told me that she wanted me to teach you this, because I do not know if it is wise to let this knowledge back out into the world." Drake went silent again staring at the hovering portal. "But humans already have some form of portaling already," Viridia countered, "So would it really be that  
  
terrible to show me the proper way?" Lor-ar nodded his shaggy head in agreement, "She has a point Drake. Besides, It's not like just anyone will be able to do it. Not only does creating the portal take a considerable amount of magic, you need both sides. The others are severely limited." Drake sighed and shook his head waving a hand at the portal making it disappear. "I suppose you're right." Drake stood and held out a hand to Viridia, "Come, let me show you." Viridia stood after taking his hand and they walked to the edge of the clearing. Once they were standing a few feet apart but facing each other he began. "Watch the way my magic flows to my hand," he said holding out his right hand palm up, Both light and dark magic streams were slowly spreading to his right hand. Once they reached his palm he continued. "Once there you let the combined stream release from your body into these shapes." Viridia watched fascinated as Drake's stream of magic twisted and turned into various symbols, each mewling into another before exploding into the circular portal. Viridia thought that she recognized some of the symbols. "Is that a language?" Viridia asked. Drake nods, "A very old language. Older than I am. It helps us harness our magic and shape it into our desired effect." "So basically I'm writing with magic?" Viridia ask grinning. Drake did not grin back. "Yes, It is not a laughing matter. If you tried to create a portal without those symbols you could tear a hole in the veil. You would not like that." Viridia's grin died at his words. Viridia practiced until Drake was satisfied that she could create the symbols quickly and accurately, Always stopping her before the portal would form. Once Drake was satisfied with her progress he told her to concentrate on a place she knew well, then make a portal there while holding the place in her mind. The first thing that popped into her head was her attic bedroom in her old house. Thinking of the room and everything in it, Viridia held out her hand and let her magic create the ancient symbols that would form the portal. A circle the same  
  
size as Drake's had been opened up above the palm of her hand, through which Viridia could see the inside of her old bedroom. The small twin bed, the scuffed white dresser, and the closed circle window were exactly as she remembered it. "Good," Drake said showing a faint hint of a smile at her progress. "Now, to close the portal you do this." Drake then creates one symbol in the air with only his dark magic. Viridia copies him and pushes the magic to her portal. Once the symbol touched the portal, both the symbol and the portal disappeared. "What was that symbol?" Viridia asks Drake. Instead of answering Drake leads her back to the fire. Once they were seated he answers her. "It is the symbol for Death. The best way to think of it is that any magic you use, you can use that symbol to end it. That's how it closes the portal." "So, using our magic is really just like writing then? How are people able to do all of the magic they've been able to do without them knowing the language and being able to create the shapes?" Viridia asks. Drake nods, "That's a good question. Lor-ar, would you answer that?" Lor-ar nods, the firelight reflecting off his large eyes. "It's all about intent and will. Everyone that does not know the ancient language is just using their strength of will to achieve what would be so much easier if they knew the words. It's like, They think of fire so strongly and force their magic to be come it by force of will. That is why all mages carry foci these days. It helps shape their magic based on their intent." "Then how can I learn to use my magic?" Viridia asks, "Do I do it like everyone else?" Drake looks at her strangely. "What do you mean?" "You said the language is older than you are. How am I supposed to learn it?" "Ah\!" Drake says, comprehension showing on his face. "Higher beast life forms have racial memories that can be passed on to their young. The most common is knowledge of the ancient language. Now that you are Truebonded to Raizen you will get those memories as well. Just not all at one time." Viridia looks down at Raizen who  
  
was still curled up in front of the fire. "It was a major thing, me bonding Raizen wasn't it?" Drake looked fondly at Raizen before nodding. "Yes. Being True bonded, wether to a dragon or any other creature is always something to not take lightly. With a dragon though, it's a bit different. The True bond carries many benefits, as each will give the other certain characteristics that they have. Although you can never really tell what you might get, you will certainly benefit from it." Drake shakes his head, "Dragons are one of the few creatures where the only bond we can have is a True bond. Not many people are aware of this. It is not something you can walk away from, which you can do with a regular bond. It's for life. You will now live as long as Raizen does, the same goes for him. If you get killed, so does he. Granted soon it will be harder to kill you, as your skin will be as hard as his, but it can still happen. Not to mention his elemental affinity." "What's that?" Viridia asks leaning forward to scratch Raizen behind his horns. "Every dragon has an affinity, an element he is able to shrug most of the damage of if he is attacked by it. My affinity is Death, so death magics are easier for me to shrug off. They could still hurt me after a period of time, but it would take longer. Raizen is a prismatic dragon. Varissa and I have no idea what his affinity will be. The few prismatic dragons there have been have never let out what specific affinity they had, but that is something we can discuss another day. You need to get back to your school. Learn the language as it comes to you in the coming days. Lor-ar can help teach you as well. The winds of War are blowing and I feel you may have need of your magic sooner rather than later." With that Viridia picks up Raizen, tells Drake goodbye, then rides Lor-ar back to the school where she finds Alice already asleep. Viridia softly closes the door. After putting Raizen on the bed Viridia changes into her night clothes and crawls into bed between Raizen and Lor-ar. Not long after she was asleep dreaming about a flying over snow-capped mountains.  
  
Chapter 4  
Over the next few weeks Viridia attended her classes while also studying at night with Lor-ar. She was progressing rapidly as Raizen's racial memories started to penetrate her sleeping mind. Alice, who was spending more and more time in the hospital wing with her sponsor, had also taken to attending the nightly lessons with Lor-ar. They had learned by experimenting that Viridia could cover Alice's eyes with her light and dark magic, allowing her to see others magical energy for a time. Thus Viridia and Lor-ar were able to help her learn the ancient language as well. Once a symbol was learned, they could mold their magic into it without being able to see it. Which was a relief for Alice. The language, they learned, was from an extinct people called the Moravians. They were the first ones, as far as the dragons or Lor-ar knew, that had actually written the magical language down. Raizen, who was growing quite quickly, had started joining into their conversations two weeks after being born. As Viridia had gotten Raizen's racial memories through the bond, he had received her memories. Thus the reason he was able to speak so quickly. As Dragons have an instinctual feel for magic, he helped her during her lessons with Lor-ar. It was during one such lesson that Alice had asked an interesting question regarding their focus. "If we are learning the actual language of magic to shape our magic, why do we need these?" Alice had asked holding up her wrist where her star focus dangled on its chain. "You don't," Lor-ar said, "That's why Viridia doesn't use hers. A focus only helps people who do not know the language. It helps them achieve the result they are trying to get." Think of it this way." Lor-ar said seeing the confused look on her face. "Imagine that I am your focus. Now, all that happens with a focus is, you send your magic to it and think that you want fire. The focus gets your magic, sees that you want fire, and then converts your will, intent, and magic into fire. That's how it works. Yet if you know the language then  
  
you bypass all those extra steps. The key is to be able to call the words to your mind quickly, so that it is seamless." So after that lesson Alice had stopped using her focus except in class. Viridia still carried hers but rarely pulled it out, even in class, prefering to only use the symbols as Lor-ar urged her to do. As she had her magical sight, what Lor-ar calls mana sight, running all the time she was able to see the symbols as they appear once someone uses their focus. Which helped Viridia learn even more. After a particularly easy day in Mrs. Zoran's beginner's magical theory and application class, Mrs. Zoran stopped her and asked her to stay after class. Once the rest of the class had left and Mrs. Zoran closed the door she turned to Viridia. "I do not think you need this class," she told Viridia with a calculating look on her face, "Everything I'm trying to teach it seems you have a grasp on already." Viridia looks down at Lor-ar. "How much can I tell her?" she asks quietly. Lor-ar raises his head and studies Mrs. Zoran where she stands at the closed door. He then turns back to Viridia. "As much as you wish, but nothing about the pact or bonding dragons." Lor-ar then curls back up on the desk. Viridia thought for a moment, wondering how to explain things. Mrs. Zoran walked to her desk and leans back against it, waiting for Viridia to talk. "Well, Mrs. Zoran, I've been getting lessons from Lor-ar as well as Raizen, who was currently asleep in her room after flying all night, and I've gotten certain," Viridia stops considering her next words carefully, "advantageous lately." Viridia thinks for a moment, then pulls her notebook out and draws the symbol for growth and then shows it to Mrs. Zoran. "What is this?" Mrs. Zoran asks looking down at the paper. "This is the symbol for growth," Viridia explains then draws two more symbols that represented limited beside it, then explained their uses. "Our magic is an actual language. A really old one. If you learn it, you won't need that" she says pointing to Mrs. Zorans focus. "I've gotten to understand magic on a deeper level since I've started learning it." "I'm not sure I entirely understand," Mrs Zoran said, "You mean  
  
that our magic is just a written language?" Viridia nods, "Think of it as an interface. It allows you to be more precise. Without needing to use a focus you are basically writing with a stream of your magic, is the best way that I can put it." "And this is how you've excelled in my classes?" Mrs. Zoran asks. Viridia nods. "Hmm. I'll have to think on this. As you are so far ahead of the rest of the class I'll be having you help me from now on. Now, I think you'd better hurry on to lunch." Viridia nodded and headed out seeing Mrs. Zoran looking thoughtfully at the paper. Walking to the dining hall with Lor-ar padding beside her she asks him, "Is it unusual that I am progressing so quickly?" They walked for a few minutes before he answered her. "I believe that it is due to your True bond with Raizen," he said finally. "As you have not obtained any of Raizen's characteristics, besides the tougher skin, It is more than possible that you received his innate understanding of magic. Plus, your magic got a major boost when you bonded him. It runs through your whole body now, as his does. That's one of the reasons why its easier for you to call your magic now." Thinking of Raizen she asks, "He's getting really big. Do they normally grow that fast?" Raizen was now already half the size of Drake although he stayed in a smaller form most of the time, prefering to ride on Viridia's shoulders when they were walking. "Yes it is normal. That is why he goes hunting every night, even though your headmistress feeds him so well." They soon reached the dining room where most of the girls were talking loudly enjoying their lunch. Viridia looked over to the fourth year table but didn't see Amber. Then she remembered that she had told Viridia she would be gone for a few days on a job Viridia guessed. Viridia sat down between two girls that were not talking and began to fix her food. Viridia was halfway through a ham and cheese sandwich when she felt a tap on her left shoulder. Swallowing she turned. She saw one of the fourth years she vaguely remembered seeing in the halls of the school. Viridia also notices that she was a dark mage, with a light core on  
  
a chain around her neck that Viridia could see through her shirt. Viridia had noticed a few dark mages throughout the school since she had started using her mana sight, so she wasn't as shocked as she had been. The most shocking had been Lady Lightwell. Viridia had seen her walking to her office and a large black swirling mass was in her chest instead of the pure white of other teachers. "Lady Lightwell wants to see you. She is in the back courtyard. She says to bring Raizen and Lor-ar if they are willing to come." Message delivered the fourth year heads out of the hall. Viridia takes another bite of her sandwich before tossing the remainder to Lor-ar who swallows it whole. Knowing that Lor-ar would follow her regardless, Viridia heads to her room to get Raizen. They, Viridia and Raizen, share a sort of short range telepathy, short range so far, but Viridia did not think she should use it to wake him up just to see if he wanted to accompany her to a meeting. Once Viridia reached her room, she opened the door quietly. Then found Raizen sitting on the bed staring at her. "You could have asked me to come to you," Raizen said flying to her shoulders and settling into his normal spot, his long tail wrapped tightly around her right arm. "I figured you were asleep." Viridia said laughing as Raizen blew hot air into her ear in response. "I woke up and you were not here. I had been debating on coming to find you myself." "How was your flight last night?" Viridia asks making her way through the corridors that would take her to the door leading out back. "It was really good. I flew with mother and father. Then we hunted. It was a good night. How are your classes?" Raizen asks. Viridia tells him about Mrs. Zoran, "She seems like a good teacher." Viridia nods pushing open the door leading to the courtyard. The three of them then stepped into bright sunshine. The back courtyard had five foot tall hedges and various other shrubbery that had been cut into figures. There was a lion, a bear, even a unicorn. A lot of work and time had been spent cultivating this area. The path leading into the courtyard was paved with semi large stones. Viridia noticed Lady  
  
Lightwell sitting on a concrete bench that had been carved with various greek gods. Lady Lightwell looked like she was enjoying the sunshine. She was dressed in an ankle length light blue skirt and a cremé white blouse. Her spectacles were firmly on her face as her face was tilted to the sun. Hearing her footsteps on the stones Lady Lightwell turned her head to Viridia. "Ah, Ms. Saeren thank you for coming. Thank you as well to Raizen and Lor-ar," she says nodding her head slightly in a show of respect. "Come sit beside me," Lady Lightwell says patting the seat beside her. "Feel free to make yourselves comfortable," she tells Raizen and Lor-ar. Accepting the invitation, Raizen detachs himself from Viridia and flys to the ground near them and resumes his full size. Lor-ar also steps back and grows to his seven foot length. Raizen's multicolored scales shone like a beacon in the sunlight. "I'm sorry we have not had our class yet," Lady Lightwell tells Viridia as she admires Raizens scales as he makes himself comfortable on the ground. "I have been very busy lately. Mrs. Zoran says that your grasp of magic far exceeds most if not all of her students. Fourth years included. I'm guessing that it has to do with your bond with him?" Lady Lightwell inquires with a tilt of her head in Raizen's direction. "Partly." Viridia answers, "There are certain things I'm not allowed to speak of." Lady Lightwell expects this and nods, "Of course." They sit quietly for a few more moments. "Magical warfare is not something to do lightly. Well, war in general isn't. You've got to be able to react instantly to an opponents attack. You have to know your own strength, not just your enemy's. Only doing that can you have the chance of winning." Lady Lightwell holds out her hand and Viridia watches as light magic streams quickly from the orb that Lady Lightwell had on a necklace to her focus, which was a glass eye on a bracelet, that then formed the symbol for fire. Once the symbol was completed it became flame. Seeing the process as well Lor-ar snorted. Startled Lady Lightwell let her magic stop, the flame disappearing, then turned to Lor-ar. "Was there something wrong with  
  
my demonstration?" she asks him politely. Lor-ar shakes his very large head, "Too slow." Lady Lightwell looks confused, "I wasn't aware that a few seconds five at the most, was considered slow." Lor-ar turns his head slightly and raises a fluffy blue green eyebrow in amusement. "Little one?" Viridia holds out a hand and a black and white flickering flame instantly appeared over her palm. Lady Lightwell gaped, her mouth hanging slightly open before she closes it. "I see. So Mrs. Zoran was clearly not overstating the facts in regards to your magical ability." Viridia smiles slightly at her praise. "What else have you been teaching her?" Lady Lightwell asks as she turns to Raizen and Lor-ar, prefering to go to the source of the knowledge. Raizen snakes his head around and looks at Lady Lightwell. "Many things to keep her alive. Test her." "I am not sure what you mean?" Lady Lightwell says, "test her how?" Raizen snorts, the stream of hot air ruffling Lady Lightwell's hair. "I am aware of your governments combat testing, run her through a combat test." Lady Lightwell looks concerned, "That is not something that is normally done while they are in school. Only if they are to join the military." "Which is why we have been teaching her to fight," Lor-ar broke in, "you have even said that the government will probably go to war with the dark mage faction. So why would we not train her to protect herself?" Lady Lightwell acknowledges his point. "Well," she says considering, "I am technically authorized to conduct the test, although I have not done it in years. You are aware that there are physical requirements as well?" Lady Lightwell asks Viridia. Viridia nods, "for the past few weeks she has been working out and running at night. She was in great shape even before coming to the school she had excelled at fitness." "All right then. As there is no point in just testing you, that might be suspicious and the higher ups might question it, I'll test all of the fourth years. I'll just say that you are a special case, a prodigy if you will. I'll hold the test next week on Wednesday. That will give some of the other girls time to prepare." Lady Lightwell stands up, motioning for Viridia to also stand up. "I'll send you a  
  
list of things that will be on the test. There might be other things but definitly what is on the list. I will send it by Amber. Also, The results will become part of your official file in the capitol, are you okay with that? Taking this test is only possible every five years." Viridia looks to Raizen and Lor-ar. They both assure her that she is ready. "I'm ready," she tells Lady Lightwell. "Okay. Then I will see you next Wednesday." Lady Lightwell says then starts walking back toward the school. Viridia watchs her until she walks into the building. The air was blowing slightly, making the bushs rustle slightly. Viridia sits back down on the bench. Viridia sat there for awhile enjoying the sun, not eager to go back inside yet. Her thoughts are on what she had seen this morning. One of the girls had left a newspaper on the dining hall table and Viridia had picked it up and scanned it. What had caught her eye was an article about High Chancellor Erik. He had been quoted as saying that he had finally decided there would be no peace talks with the Dark mage resistance and reiterated his stance on making all dark mages kill on sight. The resistance leader could not be reached for comment. The news was not good. With Viridia having both sides of the magic she still fell under the kill on sight order. Viridia had told Raizen and Lor-ar of what she had read. Their response was "That's why we have been training with you. Your world is not safe." Which was true. With the way the Army was targeting dark mages and dark mage sympathizers, It was almost a full blown civil war. Well, it really is a civil war now if Jasen makes it so. It was in his court now, as High Chancellor Erik has stated his position. "Thinking about the war again?" Raizen asks from where he lay. Viridia nods. Raizen lifts a paw, the sun reflecting off his prismatic claws, and scratches his other leg, "We will be with you. It is nothing to be afraid of. I believe you can take care of yourself." Viridia shakes her head, "It is not that, or not entirely anyway." Viridia says, she pauses trying to gather her thoughts.  
  
"It's really all the other lives that are going to be affected by the High Chancellor not being willing to have peace. Already they have killed thousands just because what they were born with. I have a feeling we will get pulled into the conflict." "Why do you say that?" Lor-ar asks. "This Academy has produced some of the most powerful and brightest light mages for years. I do not see High Chancellor letting such a precious commodity going to waste during a war." Viridia replies, "It will only be a matter of time before he starts pulling people from the Academies to supplement his army." Viridia stands and looks back at the school. Even though she has not been here that long, she has made friends that she does not want to lose. Viridia shakes her head slightly to dispel these depressing thoughts. She then starts back to the school knowing that Raizen and Lor-ar follow her. That night Viridia, Lor-ar, and Raizen head to a large clearing in the woods that Drake and Varissa had cleared for them to train. Viridia was dressed in her usual training gear. Soft black pants, dark blue sleeveless shirt and brown running shoes. Once Viridia and Raizen slide from Lor-ar's back, Lor-ar heads to the front of the clearing. Viridia and Raizen follow. Once Lor-ar was seated facing them, he began speaking. "Now that we have been concentrating on combat, It's time to put it all together. Do you remember us speaking on the Dangris people?" Viridia thought for a moment. "They are that are only born with the light side of the magic right? They've never had the dark side." Lor-ar nods, "That's correct. As creatures of the forest they are aware of our training. They have offered to help. They are a combative race in general, with their tribes in constant conflict. So it is no hardship for them. As a matter of fact they seemed quite excited." Lor-ar turned to his right. Viridia soon heard what he did. A loud rustling through the pine trees to their right. Soon six of the Dangris people emerged. It was the first time that she had ever seen another creature that looked human. Each creature  
  
stood between six to seven feet tall. They looked normal enough from the neck down, but their eyes were vertical. Their mouths likewise showed very sharp teeth, as if each individual tooth had been filed to a point, but Lor-ar had told her they were born this way. They had no nose to speak of just two slits where nostrils would go, which seemed to vibrate when they breathed in. The one who stood at the head of the group, his pupils so large there was hardly any white around it, looked to Lor-ar and spoke in a harsh guttural language, before pointing at Viridia. Lor-ar nodded. The leader then turned to Viridia. "My name is Nargash," he said introducing himself in a rough accent that Viridia had to strain to understand. "Your companion has told us of your training for war. The Dangris have always loved war. The Kor-toh tribe," he paused while his companions beat their chests twice and chanted Kor-toh Kor-toh, before continuing, "has won many battles this season, thus it was decided it should be us to help train the True bonded of Raizen." He said this last with a respectful nod to Raizen, who nodded back in acknowledgment. Nargash barked something at one of his companions who stepped forward with a large bundle wrapped. He set it down in front of Viridia and slowly unwrapped it before stepping back. On the blanket in front of her lay a set of four short spears. Each one was beautifully crafted with intricate carvings in the black wood and the tips of the spears appeared to be a type of metal she vaugeley recognized as Damascus. One of the hardest metals to find as well as the strongest. Each one was perfectly balanced. Viridia bent and picked up one. "I thank you for the gift. I fear I am not adequately skilled for such weapons." Nargash laughed. His harsh voice echoing in the clearing. "That is why we are here. Magic can not do everything. You must learn how to fight with every tool at your disposal. Not only this," he says pointing to his chest where a brilliant white core rotated, "but this and this as well." he finishs by pointing to his head and his arms. "Now, head over there." he says  
  
pointing a few yards away. Viridia steps over there, holding the spear in the ready position. She had read a book on spear combat in the library but really only knew the basic moves and stances. Instead of Nargash, one of the other Dangris people stepped forward. "My name is Venquar. It has been decided that I will assess you first." Venquar reachs to his back and pulls out another short spear that looked similar to Viridia's. Setting his feet into a stance Viridia recognized from the book as a guard stance, he motioned for Viridia to attack him. Viridia slowly circled him, keeping her body loose, looking for an opening. She lunged to her left, then stabbed right hoping to catch him off guard but he merely deflected her attack with his own spear. "Again." Venquar said straightening up. Viridia stepped forward thrusting and parrying his return blows. Venquar struck like lightning and cut her right leg then her right arm. Viridia retreated. Wary now, Viridia tried to ignore the throbbing in her arm and leg. Viridia circled Venquar desperate to score at least one hit. Finally she feinted to the right jabbing her spear forward. Yet instead of following through she flipped the spear side ways and bashed Venquar in the face with the side of the spear. When it connected Viridia heard a crack and saw a grimace of pain flit momentarily on Venquars face. They both stepped back. Venquar put a hand to his mouth and spit out one of his teeth. "Not bad," he said acknowledging her hit. "Enough." Nargash says stepping forward. "We now know what we need to train you on. Get into the guard stance. As Venquar did." Viridia spread her legs shoulder length apart spear at the ready, point down. Through the next hour they slowly attacked her. Allowing her to see the movements and the signs of which way they were going to attack. A slight movement of the right foot could mean a feint if the eyes were looking left. A foot that had been potitioned back signalled a lunge. They gradualy sped up, allowing her to see how all of their instruction worked together. By the end of their training session Viridia was showing great improvement. "Always remember," Nargash says before he and his companions departed  
  
back into the forest, "Always watch the body. It will tell you more than the creature will." With a wave they disappeared into the darkness of the trees. Viridia rubbed her shoulders then sat down against Raizen who had been watching her training. "You did good," he told her, "Anything that can keep you alive is worth doing." Viridia laughed letting some of the tension leave her body, "It keeps you alive too," she says dryly. "Well there is that. Damascus is about the only metal that can cut through your skin. Same thing with my scales, although my scales overlap so it is not instantly bad as yours. The Dangris people, they love Damascus but as it is so hard to come by and even harder to work with, having a single spear is a type of status symbol. They did you great honor by presenting you with four of them." "I was actually suprised I managed to hit Venquar." Viridia admitted. Raizen chuckled, his sides heaving with his amusement. "He was too. That's why Nargash called a stop. Venquar would have started actually fighting more and you could have been hurt. Not on purpose but because he was enjoying the fight." Viridia nodded. "It was fun" she admits. Viridia puts her right hand on her leg and begins to channel healing magic. She watchs as the skin begins to pull itself together, the muscle stitching itself closed and the bleeding trickling to a stop. Once her skin was once more smooth, she did the same to her arm. Feeling better she slowly rises and begins to stretch out her aching muscles. Lor-ar pads over and sits in front of her. "Are you ready to continue your lessons?" he asks. Viridia nods and continues stretching. Lor-ar resumes the conversation they were having the night before. "What do you know about how your army fights?" Lor-ar asks. "In what way?" "I mean what tactics, things like that." Viridia thinks for a minute with her hands clasped behind her back, slowly raising them. "Well, a lot of dark mages can not use elemental magic, besides spirit, so the army generally has an advantage there, but the dark mages have become more creative since most of them do not have access to that. Then there is the  
  
traditional martial combat, swords, spears, and so on." Lor-ar nods. "Do you know why the Dark mages rarely have access to the elements?" he asks. Viridia resumes her position leaning against Raizen. "Well, from what I've read and what we've talked about in class, the elements are a part of life. The only reason All dark mages have access to spirit is that it is a death trait as well." "So if Dark mages, most of them anyway, do not have access to elemental magic how do they fight light mages so effectively?" "Well, there is spirit in everything, to a certain extent anyway, and dark mages have learned how to use that to affect things. Certain properties. That's not including other abilities each individual mage may have developed on his own. They also have a short range shadow teleport from what the light mages have been able to gather. All in all I would say their greatest asset is stealth. Well," she admits, "That and the fact they can raise the dead. Although it would take a very powerful dark mage to raise one permanently." "Do you know how to kill a fully returned?" Lor-ar asks. Viridia thinks, running through all she has read lately then admits that she doesn't. "Pure life fire with spirit, that is the only way. It fills the returned with life then the spirit pulls it back beyond the veil." Lor-ar yawns and looks up at the sky. "We shall continue this tomorrow. We should head back. Instead of climbing on to Lor-ar as she used to, she climbed onto Raizen with her legs between the scales that seemed to form a natural seat for her. Raizen slowly beat his wings and Lor-ar watched them rise into the sky. Lor-ar then turned to the direction of the school and started running. The first time Viridia had flown on Raizen she had been afraid she would fall, especially since they were so high up. Looking down at the trees as they flew overhead she could still feel the wonder and amazement of her first flight. Thanks to her bond with Raizen she did not feel the cold air rushing past her. Looking West she could see the fire that Varissa kept burning at their cave at night. They soon reached the school where Lor-ar was already waiting for them. Viridia slipped  
  
off the side of Raizen with a soft thump as she hit the ground. Lor-ar had already shrunk down in size and Raizen followed suit flying to her shoulders in his usual place. The school was quiet and dark at this time of night. Usually first and second years were not allowed to roam about after dark. If Amber had not given her permission her late night training sessions would have had to stop. Viridia walked slowly up the stairs to her room enjoying the peacefulness of the night. The halls had dimmed kerosene lamps in sconces on each side that provided a soft glow of light. Truthfully though, the bond with Raizen had sharpened her vision so that she could have easily made her way with even less light. The light under Viridia's room showed that Alice was still awake. Viridia pushed open the door and saw Alice sitting up in bed with her pillows behind her, propping her up. She was reading a dark green book that had the physisians cadecus on it. The spine showed the title as "The Magical physician's Guide to cures and Maladies". Alice looked up and smiled as the door opened. Alice had on her usual night clothes. It consisted of a worn out grey t-shirt that hung to her knees, black shorts, and pink fuzzy wool socks. "I was wondering what time you would be in tonight." Alice said as she put a silk bookmark in her book before setting it aside, "Normally you're in before now." Viridia nodded and smiled back, "Training was a bit more intense tonight." Viridia pulled the bundle of short spears off her back, where she had strapped them before she and Raizen had made their way back. The tips of the spears reflected the lamplight. "Ohh\! Are those Damascus? Those are really really expensive." Alice exclaimed seeing them. She scooted to the edge of her bed to get a better look. Viridia leaned them against the window in the middle of the room. "Yeah, they were a gift. I've been getting training with them." "Huh, some gift." Alice said admiring them. "Speaking of gift, what's this I hear about you taking the ranking test?  
  
That's all anyone could talk about at dinner once Lady Lightwell had made her announcement. Where were you? Once she had said you were one of the ones getting tested everyone looked around for you." Viridia grimaced slightly at the fact that so many people were now interested in her. "In the library. I've got permission to go to the second and third floors so I've been studying like crazy." Alice nods, "That makes sense. Whats the deal with the ranking test? She said all of the fourth years are doing it as well." Viridia told her about the meeting she had had with Lady Lightwell earlier in the day. "So that's why," Alice said once Viridia had explained everything. "Truthfully it seems like you are shaking up this whole school." "Hey, it isn't as if I am doing it on purpose. It just happens." Viridia says. "I get it," Alice says placatingly, "but it's still true. Well, at least it isn't boring around here. We've been getting more people in our medical wing lately as the military hospitals are getting full. The whole war thing is keeping us busy." Seeing Viridia's confused look, Alice palms her forhead. "Of course you didn't hear. Another thing Lady Lightwell announced at dinner was that Jasen has given the High Chancellor one last chance. If one more dark mage is killed by his army, then Jasen will officially declare war on the light mage government. Which you know is more than likely going to happen. Our High Chancellor is not going to stop." Viridia got ready for bed as she continued talking. "That's what I believe as well. It is only a matter of time. I just hope this school does not get pulled into the conflict." Alice yawns and covers her mouth. "I'm ready to crash. I'm going to have to do my history essay during Mrs. Zoran's class. I got caught up reading." She said sheepishly putting the book she had been reading on her nightstand. Alice crawled under her covers then told Viridia good night. Yawning herself, Viridia grabs her things to take a quick shower before heading to bed herself. Mrs. Zoran's beginner's magical theory and application class the following day held a  
  
suprise for Viridia. Viridia got to the classroom a bit early, as she had taken to cutting her breaks short, and noticed Mrs. Zoran waiting for her. Apparently all the previous night Mrs. Zoran had been trying to use her magic to create the growth symbol, as well as the ones to limit how much growth occured. Finally after many fumbling attempts and cursing she was able to feel her magic form the shapes. What helped her was the thought that she was imprinting the symbol into her magic. After that it went very quickly. Now that she had grasped how to incorporate the symbols into her magic, she was eager to learn more symbols. While Viridia sat at Mrs. Zoran's desk writing more of the language down, the rest of the class began to filter in. Viridia heard them and began to get up but Mrs. Zoran motioned for her to keep writing. Once she had finished filling up the single piece of paper with various symbols, Viridia stood up and walked to her seat. The curious class watched her as she made her way to her seat and sat down. Mrs. Zoran picked up the paper that Viridia had left on her desk and began to smile as she read it. Mrs. Zoran then walked to the chalkboard behind her desk and began to draw some of the symbols. Once she had ten of them on the board she put the chalk down and dusted her hands off each other. Turning to the class she gives the class the explanation of what the symbols mean and their uses. The class looks confusedly at Mrs. Zoran. "I understand that this is a new way of thinking about your magic," Mrs. Zoran says, "but I assure you that it will help you. What is the one downside to having a focus?" she asks Viridia. "If you can not control your magic without it, if someone removes your focus then it will make it harder for you to do your magic." "Exactly" Mrs. Zoran says nodding, "Learning these symbols will help you control your magic without needing the focus as a crutch. I can attest to the fact it takes time to get used to, yet it is worth the effort. You have to be able to call these symbols to your mind instantly."  
  
The rest of the lesson consisted of the class learning the symbols that Mrs. Zoran had written on the board. As Viridia knew them all she sat talking quietly with Mrs. Zoran. Mrs. Zoran pulled a small leather bound book from her desk and passed it to Viridia. Turning it over Viridia sees that it is the complete rules and regulations for The official capitol ranking test. "There has been a slight change of plans," Mrs. Zoran tells Viridia quietly, "Lady Lightwell will not be overseeing the testing." Suprised Viridia looks up. "Who is going to oversee us then?" "The High Chancellor." Viridia's eyes went wide, "Why would he come personally?" Viridia asks. Mrs. Zoran shrugs, "One can only guess. He could be trying to get away from the capitol for a few days, but in my opinion it's the fact Lady Lightwell agreed to do the testing at all." "Why would that be unusual?" Viridia asks confused, "she's allowed to." Mrs. Zoran nods, "she is but she's only ran the test once before and that was in the capitol itself when it was her turn. Requesting to test girls at this school, before they even graduate, is highly irregular. That's not even accounting for you." "I don't understand. Why would she agree to it then?" "Lady Lightwell must think it's worth the risk of having the High Chancellor come here to have you tested. Honestly though, It could be a good thing with him coming here." "Why is that?" "Do you know what the person who receives top marks gets?" Mrs. Zoran asks. Viridia shakes her head. "They get to go through a portal, alone. Then they come out a bit later and have a meeting with the High Chancellor himself." At the mention of a portal Lor-ar raises his head, "And you have no idea where it leads?" he asks Mrs. Zoran, who again shakes her head. "All that make the trip are sworn to secrecy. I don't believe it's a magical swearing though. My guess is that Everyone who goes in has a good reason to keep quiet." Lor-ar nods and lays his head back down but Viridia could see that the mention of the portal had piqued his curiosity. It had roused Viridia's as well. With how rare portal scrolls were, and the time it took to make them, the location must be a closely guarded secret. Mrs. Zoran and Viridia discussed  
  
  
the rules for the ranking test and what she could expect as the rest of the class began to learn the symbols on the board. The test would consist of a magical proficency test as well as a martial proficency test. As Viridia was mainly training with spears, she would be facing off against another spear user. she could also go against a sword user if she wished but it wasn't required. As for the magical proficency test, she would be presented with various magical items and she must use them to complete challenges. What the challenges were Mrs. Zoran couldn't tell her, as the challenges change over the years, but she didn't think Viridia would have any issue with them, not with Viridia's innate feel for magic. With the ranking test a few days away, it was important that Viridia train as much as possible. Thankfully Viridia was given a note from Lady Lightwell at dinner excusing her from all classes until after the test. For the next three days Viridia spent her daylight hours in the library and talking to Raizen, learning more of the deeper mysteries of magic and the pact. The night belonged to Lor-ar, as they trained in the forest with the Dangris. The Dangris were excellent teachers and Nargash had told her on the last night of her training that she was close to having a connection with what they call the Heart of the spear. When you and the spear become one. The fight had been a particularly hard one, as Nargash had Venquar go full speed to test her. She had gotten a few good hits in during the exchange when she had felt a presence in her mind. After the fight had ended, with both her and Venquar breathing heavily, she had asked Nargash about it. He had looked suprised at her question but after a quick exchange with Venquar in their harsh guttural tongue, he turned back to Viridia. "You have felt the Heart of the spear." Nargash says with the shock still on his face. Viridia looked to Lor-ar then back to Nargash. "Is that unusual?" she asks. Nargash shrugs his wide shoulders, "Normally yes. With you, who  
  
are true bonded to a dragon, you throw all expectations out of the window." Nargash pulls one of his spears from the holder on his back. Running his hands lightly across the polished wood, he explains further. "As children the Dangris tribe trains to feel the Heart of the spear, other tribes use other weapons, so they feel for different Heart. There is heart in everything. you just must learn to sense it." Nargash slides the spear back in place. "For the time you have been training, you do your teachers proud." He bows slightly to Lor-ar before motioning to the others to follow him. Within moments the other Dangris tribe has followed him into the darkness. Viridia slid her own spear into the quiver that Venquar had gifted her the night before, then she sat beside Raizen leaning against his hard scales. The night was still and silent as they enjoyed each others presence, not needing to speak. Thoughts of the next day, and what the implications of her taking the test would have on her life, kept intruding into her thoughts. "Do you think there will be trouble when the chancellor comes tomorrow?" Viridia asks. Lor-ar, who was in his full form, paced in front of Viridia. "I hope not," he says, "As much as I would like to assure you that nothing will happen, I will not lie to you. Whatever happens though, you will have me and Raizen. Are you nervous about tomorrow?" Viridia leans her head back and looks at the stars for a moment before answering. "Not nervous exactly. More anxious than anything. When meditating earlier it just felt like a change was coming. I can't explain what made me feel that but that's what I felt." "Don't discount your feelings," Raizens voice sounded from beside her, "especially linked the way we are. You have a connection to very old magic." Lor-ar agreed with a chuff then told Viridia they needed to get back so she could get some rest. As the events the next day would be tiring. So with that they headed back.  
  
Chapter 5  
Viridia was woken up the next morning by a loud banging on the door, followed by a familiar face peeking around the door. "Amber\!" Viridia yells as she jumps out of bed and wraps her in a hug. Amber laughs and hugs her back. "I didn't think you'd be back for the testing." Viridia says as she walks to her dresser and pulls out one of her uniforms to get dressed. Amber scratches Raizen behind his horns as she leans against the bed, "I didn't think I would be either but I got lucky. We can talk more about that tonight though. Lady Lightwell wanted me to stop by to make sure you were prepared for today." Viridia nods, "As prepared as I can be. Do you know when the High Chancellor is supposed to show up?" Amber shrugs, "Sometime before the testing starts. No Idea when. You've got an hour before you have to report to the arena behind the school. I need to go get my things ready as well, so I'll see you there." Amber then gives her another quick hug before slipping out of the room, closing the door softly behind her. Viridia's preparations consisted of packing her training outfit into a small bag, then strapping the quiver of spears to her back. She wasn't sure if they would allow her to change to a different outfit, but she wanted to have it just in case. After telling Alice goodbye, Viridia heads to the Arena. Benchs had been set up around arena, which were filled with students and teaches. A drawing was made last night during dinner for who would be able to watch the testing. Alice had not gotten lucky, so she had decided to spend the day working in the medical ward. All of the fourth years sat to the right of the arena. Amber, seeing Viridia approaching waved her over. The other fourth years made room for her so that she could sit beside Amber. "The Chancellor just showed up a few minutes ago." Amber whispered to Viridia. Viridia looked to where a group of teaches  
  
stood around a shorter bald headed man in a white robe with a light gold sash that went from his right shoulder to his left hip. His demeanor, from what Viridia could see, was one of arrogance. He seemed to be lecturing the teachers on something that the teachers did not like, judging by their expressions. Viridia had asked Lor-ar and Raizen to stay out of sight during the testing, to hopefully keep them away from the High Chancellors attention, so Viridia relayed what was going on through her and Raizen's telepathic link. A loud chime sounds then and Lady Lightwell walks to the center of the Arena. She was dressed today with autumn colors. A burnished gold dress, and rose colored glasses. Viridia also noticed she now wore a light core necklace as Viridia and Amber did. "Good Morning students and teachers." Lady Lightwell begins, "Today we have a special guest that will be overseeing this official Capitol ranking test. I'd like to welcome High Chancellor Erik Meros who has travelled all the way from the capitol to be here today." She starts clapping lightly as the High Chancellor steps over to her. Scattered clapping joins hers, but it was only sporadic. The High Chancellor was clearly not pleased at this display but let it pass. He then cleared his throat and began to speak. "Thank you Lady Lightwell." He looks to the assembled students, "As you know we usually have these tests at the capitol but at the request of Lady Lightwell we have decided to hold it here. The High Chancellor says this last and looks around, perhaps expecting some response. Not getting one, he frowns but continues. "The fourth years, as well as Miss Saeren, will complete their official test today, and the results will become part of your official file. Does everyone understand this?" The fourth years all nod, with Viridia following suit. The High Chancellor looks to Viridia, "Miss Saeren, Are you sure that you wish to take the test today? It is not without precedent for a first year to take the  
  
ranking test but it is still unusual." Viridia nods her head and assures him she is ready. The High Chancellor still looked doubtful however. "And you are aware that with your score, no matter how low it maybe, will affect any future schooling as well as possible jobs?" Again Viridia tells him she is well aware of the fact. Seeing that he could not convince Viridia to put off taking the test he shrugs. "Very well. I think with you being our special case, we will have you take your test first." Viridia jerked a little at the news but otherwise made no motion that would betray her nerves. "The rest of you, teaches included, will retire with me to the dining hall. The only ones allowed to oversee the test are the examiner and the one taking the test. Once Viridia has finished she will join us in the dining hall and the next student will take her place." Without further instructions, he began to walk down the paved path leading back to the school. A moment later a few of the teachers followed, then everyone else moved to follow them inside. Once the rest of the school had made it inside, Viridia turned back to the only remaining person in the arena. An elderly woman with long white hair and a sturdy looking cane with runes carved into the side. She stood behind a simple wooden table filled with rods of various colors. All of them had intricate carvings on the sides, with a few having them on the globes of the rods. "Come child," The woman says, "My name be Quina. I be the tester for fifty two years now." Quina motions to the rods in front of her, "Do you be knowing what these be doing?" Viridia coated her eyes with her magic so she can see, idly noting the small size of Quina's core, and then examined the assembled rods. For the most part each rod held simple spells intended to create one effect. For example, one rod with a slight grey tint held a simple fire geyser spell, which spewed a gout of flame as long as magic was fed into the rod. Three others though had more interesting ones. One seemed to be something a medimage would use, intended to provide targeted healing to the area that the rod was touching. The next was designed to  
  
  
show the holder where precious gems could be found underground. The range depended on how much magic you could shove into it, since it looked to require quite a lot to activate to begin with, Viridia couldn't see many people being able to use it. As to the last one though, that was the most interesting. Not only did it have the most enchantments on it, When Viridia rolled the bone white twisted rod over, she saw writing that looked similar to what was on Viridia's own focus. Seeing Viridia's interest Quina grins showing her yellow stained crooked teeth, "Ah, drawn to that one eh?" Viridia shakes her head slightly, "No ma'am. I can tell it's powerful but it has more enchantments than I've ever seen on one item." Quina chuckles, "Aye, it do be powerful. Could one use it. Do you be knowing what that says?" Quina says pointing to the words on the rod. Viridia traces the unfamiliar words with the tips of her fingers, then shakes her head. "I no be suprised. There no be many people these days who do be studying such things. That one do say, 'Dust to Dust From whence we came so all may fear he who wields this cane'." Viridia frowns as she repeats those words in her head. "That seems like something you wouldn't expect in a light mages hand," Viridia says looking up into Quina's eyes. Quina nods, "That do be so, but for the sake of the test all rods be brought from the vaults. Even one such as that. Now, do you be feeling you know each of the rods?" Viridia studies the rods again, then nods at Quina. "Very well, then we shall begin." Quina then pulls a flat disc from her pocket that had five silver buttons on it. After setting the disc on the table Quina explains what it is for. "There do be five scenarios in this disk. As each button is pushed, An image will project itself into your mind. Your job will be to choose the correct rod to solve the problem that is presented. This will test your knowledge of runes, your ability to interpret magic, as well as your ability to lead. Do you be ready to begin?" Seeing Viridia was ready, Quina pushed the first silver button. A brief flash of what seemed a memory was  
  
thrust into her mind. She was standing in front of a flooding river trying to rescue people who had gotten caught in its wake. People were crying for help from the opposite side, wailing for their lost loved ones. Viridia was buffeted by the sorrow this person felt at the loss of life. The problem was clear as Viridia studied the memory, yet there seemed multiple ways to solve it. The light mages goal was to save as many people as she could that were trapped in the water, As well as reaching the others on the opposite bank. Viridia studied the rods before her and choose the one she felt would be best. In an instant the memory changed, and the light mage used the rod crafting stone bridges with sieves underneath to catch people, but letting the water pass through. The memory completed, the feeling of the light mages satisfaction at a job well done remained. Quina looked thoughtfully at her, "That do be an interesting solution but well done. On to the next." Again Quina pushes a button. The next memory was of a male light mage standing in front of a stone wall filled with glyphs that Viridia vaguely recognized, probably from Raizen's memories. The light mage was trying to decide the best way to take the information contained on the wall back to camp so he could study it. Viridia could feel the light mages reluctance to do what other scholars did when presented with this problem, so now the problem was hers. The rods before her presented various solutions to the issue but she decided to try something different. Choice made, the memory changed. The man held up his rod and absorbed his memories, storing them so that he could review them later. Solution finished, the memory faded as before. As Viridia focused her eyes on Quina, she sees that she is frowning slightly. "That do be a dangerous path to take," she warns, "Magics affecting the mind or soul can go wrong without the proper caution being taken." The next two tests were straight forward, one where she had to choose the best way to heal a child of an unknown  
  
affliction and then she had to infiltrate a building where there was a secret she needed to learn. The problem came with the final test. Once Quina pushed the button, Viridia could tell immediately this memory was not like the others. It was far older. In this memory she and nine others sat around a polished marble table. They were discussing whether to continue the war against the Dark mages by wiping out the strongest families. With shock Viridia realized this must be from the Great War that she had been told about. The problem that Viridia must solve was to answer yes or no by picking up the correct rod. For the first time, Viridia falters, unsure of what she should do. If she said yes, she would be condemning others like her, yet if she said no she would more than likely fail the test. The fact that it was only a memory mattered not to Viridia, to her it felt very real. Knowing she really did not have a choice, she picked up her rod. As the memory faded she clearly heard a voice in her head, "well done," it whispered. The disc, which had before been a sky blue, now shone gold in the daylight. Quina's eyebrows were raised at the sight, "Well I do be betting you'll be the only one with that color today. It do be rare for the test to decide to give perfect scores." Viridia stares at Quina confused, "What do you mean the test decides?" Quina chuckles as she picks up the disk lightly, the color changing back to it's former blue at her touch, and slips it back into her pocket. "It do be something we don't understand but it do seem to have a mind of it's own. It be the one that scores the test, not I. Every memory it shows, it chooses. I do say your grasp of the subtleties of magic be advanced for your years. I do believe you can go far." With that she shoos Viridia a long for her combat test. On the other side of the arena a wiry young man a few years older than her sat cross legged on the ground with a spear laying on the ground beside him. Hearing her approach he opens his eyes. "Viridia Saeren?" he asks. When she nods he introduces himself. "My name is Tobias.  
  
I will be your combat test administrator today. Are you ready to begin?" Seeing that she would not be able to change into her training outfit, Viridia steps to the side of the arena and sets her bag and quiver of spears on the ground. After pulling one of the spears out she turns back to Tobias, who had risen and was holding his own spear in his hands. Seeing her spear, he asks to see it. Viridia hands it to Tobias butt first and he examines it while holding it with his right hand. "This is an excallant weapon," he says admiring the craftsmenship, "The weight is evenly balanced and the scrollwork is exceptional. Your other spears are the same?" he asks. Viridia nods and Tobias hands the spear back, "Someone one must have felt you worthy to gift you such fine weapons. Lets see if you can use them." For the next thirty minutes he had her demonstrate her knowledge of the spear forms and her stances. Finding that she needed little in the way of correction he told her to attack him. Viridia set her self in front of Tobias and watched him settle into what she recognized as a basic guard stance. Viridia tried a few probing strikes to see how he moved, while circling him. Tobias turned with her, keeping her in sight, while easily deflecting her blows. Viridia lunged forward as if for a jab then twined for an underhand sweep at his legs, which Tobias jumped above while stabbing at her. Viridia had to dodge to the left to avoid taking the spear point in her shoulder. After positioning herself in front of Tobias again she charges forward jabbing with the spear point, as well as the butt of the spear hoping to catch him off guard. After ten fruitless minutes of not being able to penetrate his guard, Viridia steps back and grounds the butt of her spear into the ground, conceding to his skill. Tobias grins when he sees this. "Don't feel bad," He says when he sees her face, "I'm what people call a prodigy. You're very good, you just need more practise. Which is understandable considering your age. Otherwise you pass." Viridia smiles in relief, "The spear isn't something you can learn once then put down, expecting your skills to always be there.  
  
If you want it to save your life, you must practise it as hard as you do your magic. even harder if possible." Seeing that she understood, he tells her to gather her things and head inside.  
  
The inside of the dining hall was noisier than Viridia had expected it would be, when she opened the large double doors. Yet silence descended on the Hall once they realized she had come in. The High Chancellor looked to her and asked if she had completed the tests. "Yes, I was told to return here." The High Chancellor nods, "Amber Summers, you're next." Viridia then watchs Amber disappear out of the dining hall to take her test. For the next few hours, the school watched the other fourth years venture forth to take their ranking tests. Some returned looking sick or disappointed while a few actually seemed relieved. As they were not allowed to talk about the test they had just taken until everyone was done, most of the fourth years sat quietly while they waited for the testing to be finished. Viridia wished that Alice were here, but the Chancellor making everyone go inside instead of watching the testing had made the drawing they did a moot point. Viridia hoped that she was having fun in the medical ward. The other first years were looking at Viridia with such curiousity that she was sure there would be many questions for her tomorrow, if not tonight. Once the last fourth year entered the dining hall, a girl named Regina, The High Chancellor raised his hands motioning for quiet. The talk slowly subsided as the two examines entered by the door behind the teacher's table. They stood to each side of the High Chancellor. The High Chancellor then asked them if they had reached their decisions. "We have," Tobias says. "Proceed." The High Chancellor replies. Quina clears her throat and begins. "Out of the twenty five students tested today, only one managed to complete my test to the test's satisfaction. Viridia Saeren, step forward." Viridia swallowed the lump in her throat as she rose to her feet, stepping clear of the bench. Slowly she made her way to the front  
  
  
of the dining hall, stopping in front of the teachers table. "Miss Saeren, you have impressed the test with your ingenuity and knowledge. I give you top marks." Viridia sighed in relief. Tobias was next, "Miss Saeren, while there were some things you could have done better during your combat test, I have no complaints. You pass your combat test." Viridia nods her thanks at his words. The High Chancellor looks to the examiners, "I take it that you both choose her." The High Chancellor asks them. Quina and Tobias both nod their agreement. The High Chancellor sighs then rises to his feet. "Everyone else is dismissed," He announces, "Miss Saeren, if you will follow me back to the arena?" The High Chancellor turns and leads the way through the door behind the teacher's table. Viridia follows close behind, wondering what was going on. Once they reached the arena, the High Chancellor motioned for her to sit. The sun was glaring brightly off of the High Chancellor's bald head. "Congratulations are in order," The Chancellor says as he paced in front of the bench where Viridia sat, "I must say I can not remember another first year student that has done as well as you did." The Chancellor stopped, looking at her. "Quite remarkable. Anyways, It's tradition for the student that receives top marks to receive something extra, a reward if you will, from the capitol, for doing so well. As you can see, that would be very prestigious." "Excuse me sir, but what kind of reward?" Viridia asks cautiously. The High Chancellor smiles in what Viridia assumes is supposed to be a grandfatherly smile, but the effort falls short. In answer the High Chancellor pulls a scroll from a pocket of his robe and hands it to her. Viridia slowly unrolls the vellum scroll. Inscribed inside were glyphs for a modified portal spell. Viridia couldn't tell what the destination would be, but at least she recognized it for what it was. "I can tell this is magical yet I can't say I recognize the spell." Viridia says feigning ignorance. The High Chancellor scanned her face looking for any signs that she could  
  
Know what the spell was for. After a moment he continued speaking, "That scroll holds a portal spell, which takes the user to a very special place. It is forbidden to speak of what is on the other side of the portal, as we consider it a state secret. One of our ancestors stumbled across it during his research into portals, and we have used this to our advantage ever since. You will understand more once you step inside. Only one person may enter at a time, a restriction the place enforces, so you will have to go on alone. I will be waiting here for you to return." With that he sits on one of the vacant benchs. Viridia looks down at the scroll for a moment before standing and striding to the center of the Arena, where she unrolls the scroll again and studies it. She can see how they have modified the glyphs so that a touch of her light magic would in effect set off a chain reaction activating the rest of the scroll. Viridia sets her feet and holds the scroll firmly in her hands and lets a tiny flow of her light magic touch the activation glyph. Like a fire catching dry grass, the glyphs lit up one after another in a dizzying display of magic until the whole scroll shone even in the sunlight. A ripping sound echoed across the arena and a portal sliced into existence a few feet in front of her. Viridia looks back to The High Chancellor who stared impassively at her while motioning her to go in, "Everything will make sense once you step through." Viridia then turned back to the portal and took a deep breath. Steeling herself she stepped through.  
  
end chapter 5  
  
Chapter 6  
A dark cave with what seemed to be a pedestal was the only thing that Viridia could see once she stepped through. The only illumination came from the inside of the stone pedestal a few feet in front of her. Viridia walked over to it and looked down. A pool of liquid lay in the carved hollow of the pedestal, the light seeming to come from the very liquid itself. As she leaned closer she could feel a kind of ressonance with the light side of her core. As if it could sense her magic, the same split symbol on her focus appeared at the bottom of the pool making the pool split into dark and light as Viridia watched fascinated. Now both sides of her core were practically calling to the still surface below. Without thinking Viridia reached out with her magic and touched the pool of liquid. Once she made contact Viridia gasped in shock. This was no ordinary magic water. This was magic itself. She could feel the connection that tied every other creature to this magical source. She stood in awe as she was bombarded with knowledge and memories. She was able to see when the original pact was made, during the second war, as well as when mankinds connection to the dark half of the magic was partially severed. She now knew why being born with the dark magic was rarer, because of what the original light mages had done. The connection to the dark magic was tenuous but still there, maybe there was a way to repair it, or so Viridia hoped. Another thing she realized was that her store of magical energy had grown exponentially, as if connecting to the source of all magic had increased her capacity a hundred fold. This must be why The High Chancellor allows people to come here, to make them a stronger mage. Viridia reluctantly lets go of her magic and steps back from the pedestal. The pool of magic returned to it's normal white color as she backed away. Viridia felt that she could return to this place if she wanted by casting her own portal spell but she knew she had learned all that she could for now. She did make a mental note to ask Drake or Varissa about this place the next time she saw them. With a deep breath she  
  
stepped back through the portal into sunshine that made her squint after being in the darkness of the cave. The High Chancellor was still sitting on his bench when she stepped through. Seeing her emerge the High Chancellor gets to his feet and walks over to her with a searching look on his face. "Did it go well?" he asked. Viridia nods, "What was that place?" The High Chancellor shrugs, "No one really knows. The prevailing theory is that place was where someone hid an artifact that enhances ones magic. The pedestal seems to be a repository of liquid magic. The only thing anyone has ever gained from there is a larger core." Viridia realizes immediately that her experiences must have been different from the others and she knows she must not let anyone know of this. "Does it only work once?" she asks. The High Chancellor nods, "Yes, one time only. Even if you managed to get back it would do no good," he says when he sees Viridia glancing to where the portal had been. "It should go without saying that this is not something that should be talked about with your school friends," he warns her, "The reason we only let the one who gets top marks enter the portal is that they would hopefully have the wisdom to use their new strength with wisdom. Do you believe you have that wisdom?" he asks. Viridia assured him that she did, "Good. Good. We'd best get back inside then before everyone starts worrying that something has gone amiss." With a hand on her shoulder he guides her back inside asking her what she'd like to do once she's graduated school. Viridia tells him that she hasn't made a decision yet, as that's still a few years away. "Ah but that time will fly by in the blink of an eye. Why It could feel like just tomorrow when you leave this school" something in the way the High Chancellor made that statement caused her to watch him out of the corner of her eye as they made their way back to the dining hall. As they stepped inside of the packed hall everyone, including the teaches gave Viridia a round of applause. Viridia tried not to let how much the attention bothered her show on her face but she was sure she wasn't successful. Lor-ar was curled up in his small  
  
form on the bench where she normally sat. Lor-ar raised his head and yawned once she approached. "So, I hear you did well on your test." he says getting to his feet so she can sit down. Viridia greets the girls near her before sitting down, "Yeah, the test itself wasn't too dificult. The price was something else all together though." Viridia then explained about the portal and what she had seen there. Lor-ar nods as if all this was known, which considering he was the spirit walker for his tribe wasn't impossible. "Now you truly know how broken your people have become," he says. Viridia passes Lor-ar some pieces of beef as she looks around the hall. Most of the fourth years seemed happy but there were a few who looked disappointed. As she was looking around, Viridia notices that the High Chancellor had put on a pair of silver framed glasses. He was also looking around the hall, yet his expression was one of disquiet. Viridia frowns and turns back to her food so that he would not catch her staring. Viridia's frown wasn't just because of the look on the High Chancellor's face, but the glasses as well. The glasses were magical but Viridia couldn't make out what the magic was supposed to do. As if Lor-ar was reading her mind he supplied the answer, "They are glasses of true seeing." Viridia glances quickly at the Chancellor, who was now in conversation with Lady Lightwell. "True seeing of what?" Viridia asked. Lor-ar shrugs, "There's no way to tell unless you use them. That's a spell based on intent. No glyphs needed really. Why the interest?" Viridia shakes her head, "Just something he said earlier. It's probably nothing." Lor-ar studies her face and mentally sighs, "Raizen has went to hunt with Drake, they wont be back before tomorrow. If anything is wrong it will at least wait until then." Lor-ar then stretchs and jumps down, "I'll see you in your room." he says disappearing through the doors. It was a testament to how common he was to everyone now that hardly anyone paid much  
  
  
attention to him now. Viridia stayed there for a bit longer until the head mistress dismissed them, saying they should head to their rooms for the night. Everyone stood and made their way back to their rooms talking excitedly about what had happened today. Viridia listened to them talk but did not join in. She hoped that Alice was back so that she could talk to her. Unfourtunately when Viridia pushed open her door, she saw that the room was empty, save for Lor-ar who was curled up on Viridia's pillow. Seeing that Alice was not there she sighed. "Has Alice been in?" Viridia asks as she puts her training gear away, as well as her spears. Alice's bed was still made so she obviously had not been back to bed. "She stopped in briefly to retrieve a textbook." Lor-ar replies, "She wanted me to tell you that she had been ordered to stay in the medical ward tonight. All of the helpers were." Viridia shook her head, "That makes no sense, they've never done that before. They gave no explanation?" Lor-ar lifts his head and looked at her, "They only told her they wanted everyone near by in case they were needed." "They must be using us for overflow," Viridia says getting ready for bed, "They've done it before, usually after they have a raid though. They must be expecting a lot of injuries tonight." Viridia crawled into bed beside Lor-ar and yawned, "Well after the excitement of today, I'm ready for my normal classes." Lor-ar chuffs beside her, "I bet. Go to sleep little one, leave those thoughts for tomorrow." Viridia snuggled closer to Lor-ar and soon fell asleep.  
  
The sound of muted screams woke Viridia and Lor-ar from their deep sleep. Lor-ar jumped from the bed changing to his full size with a deep guttural growl, lightning crackling along his fur. Viridia had rolled off her bed as well, reaching for one of her spears she kept near her nightstand. There were crashing sounds and more screams coming from the halls outside of Viridia's door. "Dress quickly,"  
  
Lor-ar commands. Viridia grabs her dark training clothes and hurriedly dresses as the sounds grew louder outside of her door. The door splinteed inward as a heavy blow smashed into it. Lor-ar did not hesitate to jump forward, his jaws opening wide to clamp onto the man's throat that loomed in the doorway. Lor-ar jerked his head back and forth ripping his throat out, the mans blood spraying on the walls. The Halls outside of her room were filled with firelight and she could see some of the lamps had been knocked to the ground and flames now licked at the walls. Now that the man was dead Lor-ar looked back, "Come little one, this place is no longer safe. We must leave." Viridia grabbed the quiver of spears and slipped it over her shoulder and followed Lor-ar into the hallway. The sound of fighting intensified as they got closer to the end of the hall. From one of the side rooms a large man flung himself out and into Viridia. The man was wearing the white and gold uniform of the capitol's army. Lor-ar growled and crouched but before he could jump another man blasted him in the side with Life fire. The force of the impact shot him into the wall, where he lay stunned for a moment, his fur smoldering where the fire had hit him. The newcomer smiled and glanced at his companion who was fighting with Viridia. Viridia was currently trying to stab her opponent and maneuver over to where Lor-ar lay against the wall. She used the end of her spear to knock his sword aside then dodged his return swing and swept his feet out from under him. Before he could scramble to his feet Viridia had stabbed him in the heart. Panting with exhaustion, she turned to the remaining soldier who still stood watching her. He had silver braided cords on his shoulders, marking him as a captain. "So," he says conversationally, "One of you dark mage brats has teeth after all. It would have been a real shame to kill all of you without someone putting up a fight." The fire in the hallway was spreading now and the smoke was making it more difficult  
  
to breathe. "Lor-ar was still on his side not moving and Viridia was worried he had been seriously hurt. To buy them time Viridia replied, "These girls weren't dark mages." The captain shook his head and held out his hand. A carved white wooden staff appeared in his hand. "You can plead all you like. The High Chancellor himself confirmed this yesterday. When Rumors began that Lady Lightwell was helping dark mages, even training them, the High Chancellor did not want to believe it. Yet, the evidence continued to mount. After yesterday he no longer had a choice." While the captain was talking Viridia was studying his new staff, making note of the enchentments. It granted him a limited bubble of protection, which when activated no magic could get out and none could get in. Seeing this Viridia began to plan. "So you've been ordered to wipe out every mage, wether they are a dark mage or not." she said. Using her dark magic, Viridia inscribes a new rune onto his staff, linking it with his protection rune. Viridia had not done many distance rune craftings, so she was nervous it wouldn't work the way she had intended it, but it was her best option. The captain shrugs, unaware of the alteration Viridia had just made, "The law is the law. The punishment for helping dark mages is death." With that, he raised his staff activating the protection glyph. Viridia smiled and relaxed. The captain frowned in confusion until Viridia's rune also activated. A loud boom sounded, making Viridia cover her ears with the shock of it. Encased inside the protective bubble, the explosion rune obliterated the captian. The flames swirling inside the bubble left no trace of her enemy. Viridia ran to where Lor-ar still lay on his side. Pushing healing magic into him, Lor-ar started hacking and coughing as he got to his feet. Viridia smothered the life flames with a flash of earth magic. Bits of the ceiling fell nearby as the school shook. "They must be fighting in the main hall." Viridia says looking down the hallway. Lor-ar and Viridia ran along the hallway following the sounds of fighting. They both stopped as they turned the corner, leading into the  
  
main hall. There were small groups scattered through out fighting. The fourth years were doing suprisingly well in holding off the seasoned soldiers, yet it would only be a matter of time before they were overrun, as the soldiers fought with such ferocity that they could do nothing but win. The head mistress was engaged with the High Chancellor, they were both throwing magic with such skill and speed, if even one spell had faltered the other would surely have died. One cast a spell, the other countered. It seemed to Viridia Lady Lightwell was winning but she knew that could change in an instant. "You can't win\!" High Chancellor Erik yells at Lady Lightwell, barely dodging shadow hands that reached for him, "Even now your students are dieing. Your treachery is ended." Lady Lightwell sees Viridia and sends a thought to her, "You must save as many as you can. This school is finished. Find Jasen, he will help you." Viridia knows that Lady Lightwell speaks the truth, although she hates it, she nods. Viridia runs down the stairs, Lor-ar following close behind. They dodged soldiers, not bothering to attack. Finally they broke through to a small group of students. Amber was there, maintaining a protection spell, while three second and five third years huddled inside. Viridia was dismayed to find she did not see any first years. Thoughts of Alice almost made her run to the medical wing but she knew she could not abandon these students just to save her friend. Amber let her through her spell then quickly recast it before a soldier could slip through. The students crowded around her asking what they were going to do, not giving her time to speak. Lor-ar roared, silencing the girls. "I've got a way out but we've got to hurry. I don't know how much longer Amber will be able to hold her spell." Even now more soldiers had crowded around them, throwing their spells against her shield. Viridia could see the strain on Ambers face and knew what holding the spell was doing to her. With a thought, Viridia opens a portal beside her. Lor-ar jumps through, then after a second he reappears.  
  
"It is safe." Lor-ar tells her. Viridia then humidley ushers the girls into the portal. Once They were all through, with the exception of Amber, Viridia, and Lor-ar, Viridia turned to Amber. "We're going through. Once you step through your magic will automatically cut off, so I'll have to close the portal quickly." "What about the head mistress?" Amber asks looking to where the headmistress and the High Chancellor were still going at it. Viridia glanced up there then turned back to Amber, "She told me to get who I could out. You're tiring out fast. We have to go now." Amber nods. "I'm right behind you." Viridia follows Lor-ar through the portal, then steps aside. As soon as Amber backed through the portal, with her hands still raised holding the spell, Viridia closed the portal as soon as the golden glow of the protective shield winked out. The bright full moon was the only illumination in the dark night. The other young girls were crowded together a few feet away, shivering in the cool night air. Amber had slumped to the ground, the magical drain finally hitting her. Viridia stood half leaning on Lor-ar, running her hands through his thick fur. The portal had led them to a wooded area, the tall trees casting shadows in the moonlight. Since Amber was still on the ground trying to recover and the other girls were obviously in no shape to take charge, Viridia spoke up. "Come on, we should be able to find shelter soon." Viridia helped Amber to her feet and began to herd the girls in the direction of Jasen's camp.  
  
The trek through the woods progressed quickly, with the girls talking quietly among themselves but Amber still had not spoken. She seemed deeply shaken about the night's events. Viridia tried to talk to her a few times but finally gave up and retreated into her own thoughts. Viridia wasn't sure what Raizen would do when once he returned to the school and saw what happened. As Viridia and Raizen were bonded, he would know she had not died, but she did not know how he would be able to find her. As portals could span any distance there was no telling  
  
  
where she was in relation to the school. Viridia hoped that they would not have any problems reaching the resistance camp and that once they reached it they would be able to stay. Viridia and Lor-ar were discussing their options if Jazen wouldn't let them join when they cleared the tree line. As they stepped through shadows leaped forward entangling them, even Lor-ar was not able to dodge the grasping hands. The girls cried out in fear, not understanding what was happening. Amber was struggling weakly against her bonds but it had no affect. Viridia could feel that the shadows were only keeping them immobile, not trying to harm them, so instead of struggling uselessly, and wasting her energy, she just waited for whoever cast the spell to appear. A few minutes later a shadow stepped out of the darkness. Viridia could see a large black core swirling in the figure's chest. As the person got closer, Viridia could see it was a man who looked to be in his mid twenties. He had close cropped hair, that could have either been dark brown or black, Viridia couldn't tell in the darkness. He had a lanky build, with eyes that took them all in at a glance, yet he stopped when he noticed Lor-ar. With a curse he swept his hand in front of him, dismissing his magic. "Sorry about that," he apologized stepping closer to them, "Lightwell didn't tell me you were coming." Amber was trying to calm the girls down which left Viridia to talk to the newcomer. "My names Jazen," he says holding out his hand. Viridia shook it then looked over to where the girls were huddled up, "I'm Viridia, this is Lor-ar. Are we close to your camp?" Jazen, seeing that the others were still shaken up, nods. "Follow me." They all hurried after him, entering some more woods. Every so often, Jazen would have to disable some wards, allowing them to pass, before resetting them. With how the Light mages had been hunting for them, Viridia could see that their caution was warrented. Close to an hour later they came to a village that was lit up with bonfires. "Isn't it dangerous to have this much light at night?" Viridia asks watching him disable even more wards. Most of them she  
  
recognized but there were a few that she didn't. She made a note to ask him about them later. Jazen shakes his head, concentrating on unraveling the complex magic. "Not at all. I've actually figured out a way to make a fixed location invisible. It takes a huge amount of magic so there are only like three people here who could actually power the enchantment. That's why one of us has to be within the town at all times." Finally the magic he had set dissipated slowly and Jazen sighed in satisfaction. "That's one of the trickiest pieces of magic I know. It always makes me feel good seeing it." "What's it do?" Viridia asks curiously. Jazen grins, "I'll tell you later. For now get your group to the fire in the middle of town while I set the magic again. I'll meet you there." With that he turned his back and began to work. Viridia watched him in fascination for a moment before shaking herself. She had people to look after. Viridia and Lor-ar led the way to the village square, the light getting brighter the closer they got. Amber, who looked like she had finally recovered jogged up to Viridia. "Did the headmistress tell you what we should do here?" she asks Viridia quietly. They had just reached the fire and the young girls were warming themselves. A few had sat down and were staring into the fire. Viridia shakes her head, "We've talked about Jazen before but not about me joining him specifically. I don't know what he has been told about me either." Amber looks back to where Jazen was walking towards them. "Just be careful." Amber warns before heading to the other girls. Now that Jazen was in the firelight, Viridia could see that he wore simple brown pants and a dark blue shirt. He was swiping away sweat on his forehead with a kerchief, which he put in his pocket, as he approached. "Whew, well that's done." he says with a grin that didn't quite meet his eyes, "Now we can get to the real important stuff. How'd you get here and why are you here?" Viridia explained about the attack on the school and their subsequent travel by portal to their location. When Viridia finished Jazen stood there frozen, not believing or not wanting to believe her news.  
  
"So she's dead huh?" Jazen asks softly, briefly closing his eyes as if in pain. Viridia hesitates then answers, "I didn't see her die. It's possible she could have survived." Jazen sharply shakes his head, "They wouldn't allow her to escape. They've now taken everything from me. My sister and now my mother." Viridia's mouth dropped open in shock, "Your mother?\!" she exclaimed. Jazen nods sadly. "Yes. I was not given her last name as that would have jepordized her position at the school. It nearly broke her when they killed my sister Jan, since then she's been helping more and more with the resistance. And now they've taken her from me." He was quiet for a moment before straightening up. "Enough, you all have had a hard night. I'll lead you to some sleeping quarters. We can discuss the future tomorrow." Viridia then helps Amber gather the girls up and they follow after Jazen. Jazen leads them to two houses at the end of an alley, with another fire in front of it. Jazen holds open the door on the right, "You'll be safe in here," he tells them. The girls passed him silently. Jazen lightly touches Viridia's arm stopping her. "Come find me when you wake," he tells her softly. Viridia nods and steps inside. The door closed softly behind her. There were enough bed rolls on the floor to accomodate everyone thankfully, although Viridia pulled hers to the far wall away from everyone. Lor-ar, still in his large normal form, lay beside Viridia's bed. Once the other girls were settled, Viridia crawled inside her own bedroll. Thoughts of the past night kept running through her mind. The man Lor-ar had killed. The dead girls in the hallways. It seemed to crowd her mind with images. It was the first time she had seen that much blood, that much death. Viridia knew now that her life was not going to be easy. With the fact her magic was different than everyone elses and now it seemed like she was part of the dark mage resistance. Her life was now dangerous, there was no way around it. Plus, Jazen had now lost his mother, which from the way he said it sugests that she was  
  
the last remaining family member he had left, so there was no telling what he would do. Viridia looks over to where the other girls lay, their even breathing showing they had finally fallen asleep. She had to do what she could to protect them. Viridia then rolled over and began to use Lor-ar's breathing to lull her into sleep.  
  
Chapter Seven  
The next morning Viridia set out to find Jazen. The villagers seemed friendly enough, From the condolences some of them said as they were introducing themselves Viridia guessed that the story of their departure from the school had already made its rounds. The village was bigger than she realized, with many of the houses built close together. Viridia wondered how many people the village could hold. After asking a few people where Jazen was, Viridia was directed to the town hall where Jazen and the council were having a meeting. The town hall was a large stone building placed close to the center of town. The windows were dusty and the large wooden porch looked like it had seen better days. Viridia walked up the creaking steps and knocked on the scuffed wooden double doors. After a minute the door was opened by an old man with a graying brown beard and a quite bald head. The man studied her for a moment before grunting and motioning for her to follow him inside. As she followed the silent man down a long hallway, Viridia could hear raised voices. "-must do something\!" a voice she recognized as Jazen yelled, "We can't just keep sitting here while he kills our people." Jazen turns briefly as Viridia and the man enter the room, then turns back to address the three other people in the room. The one on the left was an older woman with silver and gold spectacles. She had on a light blue dress. The man in the middle looked a little older than Jazen but was a great deal more muscular. He had the sunburned look of one who consistently works  
  
outdoors. The last was a stately older woman, her silver hair was pulled up in a tight bun. Her face was severe, with a hooked nose, and her eyes were the color of her hair. The old man who had lead her to the room took a seat beside the older woman on the right. "Look Jazen, we get what you're saying," the muscular man says with a hint of exasperation in his voice, "But it's not that easy. We can't just mobilize everyone at a moments notice. We still have to protect the ones who can't fight." The woman in the blue dress nods, "Brutus is right. We were sorry to hear about your mother, but that doesn't change our situation. Now that we do not have her helping with supplies, our position here has become even more precarious." "But that's what I'm talking about\!" Jazen explodes, "We can not stay here forever. With my mother gone, we have lost our inside information. We must act while we still have the element of suprise." The two women looked uneasily at each other, "Now Jazen," the stately woman began but Jazen cut her off with a wave of his hand. "No. You wanted me to be a part of this council since it is my magic sustaining the enchantments that hide this place, but that's all we've done. Hide. I tell you this now. No more. We can not let them keep killing dark mages with impunity. By this time next week, I mean to be on my way to the capitol, and considering I'll be taking the two others who could power the enchantments, you'd better make a decision fast." Finally the old man spoke up, his voice soft, "So you mean to use our safety as a club to force us to do as you wish?" he asks. Jazen shakes his head, "Not at all Coram, If Hiram or Abe wish to stay and keep you hidden they are more than welcome to. Yet I know that they chafe under your rules as I do, so do not be suprised when they turn you down if you ask." Coram studied Jazen with a troubled look on his face, then sighed. "We will do as you ask." The other council members gasped in surprise. Coram glared at his fellow council members. "You know as well as I we could not stay here if they chose to go. Many here are tired of hiding as well. You  
  
  
know that I speak sense." The others looked at each other, then back to Coram and Jazen. It was Brutus who spoke for the others, "If this goes wrong Jazen, on your head be it." Jazen nods his head in acknowledgment. Glancing at Viridia, he motions for her to follow him out. Once they reached the street, Jazen turned towards the road leading out of the village, with Viridia following close behind. It wasn't until they reached the edge of the protective enchantments that Jazen spoke. "I know the council members are afraid but we've got no choice. Patrols have come closer to finding this place multiple times, and with the amount of people we have here it would be difficult to find a new place quickly. It's not just because they killed my family," he says to Viridia, begging her to understand, "I'm trying to save everyone." Viridia looks out, studying the enchantments, trying to put words to her thoughts. "I think the council understands this, yet they are afraid of what will happen should we fail. At least here they have a life." "Which I have given them\! Before I joined them they were living every day wondering if a capitol patrol would find them." he says. Viridia turns to Jazen then, "And you can't see that they would hate to go back to that?" Viridia asks. Jazen turns away at her question but Viridia continues, "For what it is worth, I agree with you. Something has to be done. Whether it's an attack on the capitol or something else, I don't know, but something must be. Our people, light and dark mages both, can not continue on as we have been." Jazen shrugs, "If you can think of a better way I'm all ears but until then we leave in a week." Looking at the sky Jazen says "Let me know if any of you need supplies or clothes. I know with leaving the way you did, there wasn't any way for you to bring anything." Viridia nods and Jazen heads back to the village leaving Viridia by herself. Viridia stood there for a time thinking about Jazen's plan. Storming the Capitol. Viridia shook her head. There must be another way that did not take the lives of so many  
  
mages, light and dark both. Because Viridia had no illusions that a war would mean many deaths. She thought back to when she stepped through the portal and connected with the magic. If only there was a way to restore what was broken. A scuffling sound behind her was the only warning Viridia had before Lor-ar jumped up on the rock beside her. "I wondered where you were little one." Viridia smiled up at where he was now lounging on top of the rock, his tail swinging lazily behind him, then filled him in on her morning. "So he means to fight. This is good. They have hidden for too long already." Viridia frowns, "But what if there's another way?" she asks. Lor-ar cocks his head in curiousity, "Explain." So she does, she tells Lor-ar about the memories and knowledge she had gained from the well. "Ah," he says once she finished, "This is what you were talking about when you returned from the portal." Viridia nods, "I don't know why else it would have given me this knowledge if I wasn't to use it." Lor-ar thinks for a moment. "I do not know if that would work. Just trying could, and probably would, kill you." "So we don't even try? We march to our deaths like good little soldiers?" Viridia asks frustrated. Lor-ar peers down at Viridia sadly, "Death is a part of life little one. Even Dragons with their long lifespans will die some day." Lor-ar jumps down, "Come, let's head back. I'm sure the others are wondering where you are by now." Viridia and Lor-ar walk slowly back to the village with Viridia holding on to Lor-ar's fur in comfort. The other girls seemed to be settling in fine, as far as Viridia could tell. They were playing and talking with some other girls their age. Amber stood off to the side watching them. Not wanting to engage in another conversation for the moment, she raised a hand in greeting but kept walking. Lor-ar was content to pad along beside her in silence, leaving her to her thoughts. Viridia's thoughts, while centered around one theme, were a jumble. Between thinking about and replaying the memories she had received and how  
  
something like that would even work, her mind was a mess. She had an idea of how she could stop the war, she just wasn't sure if she would survive the process. Viridia wished Raizen was there. "Have you been able to contact Raizen?" Viridia asks Lor-ar. Lor-ar chuffs, "Of course. He and Drake killed the capitol soldiers that had remained at the school. Once they realized you were not there, they set out to find you." "They?" Viridia asks. Lor-ar looks up at her and gives her a look that must have been a grin, "Oh yes. Not only is Raizen coming, so is Drake and Varissa. They are not happy you have been placed in danger." Viridia smiles in relief. Three dragons would stop an army. Three ANGRY dragons would make them run. "They should be here in a few days. Well before we must leave. So until then we must rest and plan." Lor-ar's news that Raizen was on his way had brightened Viridia's mood enough for her to head back and join the others. Amber was still watching the girls when Viridia appeared from around the buildings, so she strode over to talk to her. Amber had changed into other clothes, Viridia guessed that she had been given them by the villagers. "Hey," Viridia said when she approached. Amber turned at her voice, "Hey yourself." Amber says looking her over, "You seem to have survived the council meeting this morning." Viridia laughed, "Yeah Jazen wasn't happy with the council." Amber looked back to the kids, "I don't know if war is the best option though. These kids have already been through a lot." Tiff, one of the second years they had rescued, was standing off by herself with a sad look on her face. The others seemed like they were just going through the motions, now that Viridia could see them better. Which made sense. They had never had someone deliberately try and hurt them before, so all of this was hitting them hard. As much as Viridia hated it, it was going to get harder. "What will we do with the children when we head to the capitol?" Amber asks. Viridia shakes her head, "I'm not sure. There are a few things I need to speak to Jazen about and I'd like you to  
  
be there as well." Amber looks at Viridia in surprise, "Of course." They stood there for a few minutes longer before Viridia turned to leave. "I'll send Lor-ar to find you once I find Jazen. The sooner we talk the better." Viridia gives Amber a quick hug before hurrying off. "Are you sure you wish to do this little one?" Lor-ar asks as he trots beside her. "I have to," Viridia says, "They must know its possible." Lor-ar was quiet then, accepting her wishs. They found Jazen checking his enchantments at the perimiter. Hearing their approach, Jazen turns. "Doing your patrol?" Viridia asks. "Yeah, I normally check them a few times a day," Jazen answers, "Better safe than sorry. What's up?" Viridia turns to Lor-ar, "Can you run and get Amber?" Lor-ar nods and races off. "Amber is the other fourth year that came with you right?" "Yeah, she was my mentor at the school." "What's going on?" Jazen asks with a serious look on his face. "There are some things you need to know and I'd like Amber to be here as well." Viridia says. Jazen studies Viridia's face, and nods. A few minutes later, Amber arrives on Lor-ar's back. Once she had slid down she thanks Lor-ar for allowing her to ride him. Amber straightened her skirt then walked over to where Viridia and Jazen waited. "Hi Jazen," Amber says. Jazen smiles at her. "Hello, I hope you've recovered some from your troubles?" Amber nods, "Thank you for allowing us to stay. I'm not sure where else we could have gone." "It's no problem at all. I'm glad we could help. Viridia says she has something we need to hear." he turns back to Viridia waiting for her to speak. "What you're about to hear will sound impossible, so I'm going to tell you my story first, then show you proof." Viridia took a deep breath, "I have both sides of the magic, light and dark. During the last war the light mages, along with a select few dark mages, began the process of severing our connection to the dark magic. Along with spells, they started wiping out whole family lines that were strong in dark magic. They thought they had succeeded but all they did was make it where people stopped being born with both sides, with some not being born with any magic at all.  
  
If we can't find a way to fix it, there will not be any magic left to fight over. Even now fewer mages are born every year." Jazen and Amber stood there staring at her, not quite believing what she said. "Putting aside the fact you say you are a light and dark mage, how could you know about that war and what those mages did?" Jazen asks. Viridia then explains about the well of magic and the memories it gave her. "So that's why you were saying there had to be another way. How exactly are we supposed to fix it? And what will happen when we do?" Viridia grimaces at Ambers questions. "Well, I'm still working on that part, how to fix it I mean. As for what will happen, I honestly have no idea. All I know is, I have to try." Viridia could see that Jazen was skeptical about the whole situation. She stepped forward and put her hand over his eyes. With a thought she covered his eyes with her magic, allowing him to see her core. That done, she did the same for Amber. Amber gasped in shock at the sight of Viridia's core while Jazen's eyes widened at the sight. "The young one speaks truth," Lor-ar tells them, "She is the only one who is not broken. This is your only chance to stop the war." Jazen shakes his head, "It's not that easy," he says, "Even if it were to succeed, what would stop them from trying to do as they did before?" Viridia looked at Lor-ar for an answer but he just shrugs. "Nothing. Yet should that stop us from making the attempt?" Jazen looked at Amber then Viridia. "You're got a week." he tells Viridia after a few moments of thoughtful concentration. "There's no guarantee what you are proposing would work. I will not risk my plans on this, I'm sorry. If you can not find a way in that time, we will move on the capitol, with or without you." Jazen nods at her, "Good luck." Viridia watchs Jazen stride back to town, back straight and walking with purpose. Everything about him seemed to have purpose. "Well, a week is better than nothing." Amber says trying to look on the bright side. "Do you have any idea where to start?"  
  
Viridia sighs, "I've got an idea but I'm looking for another." Amber looks at Viridia in surprise, "Why not try the idea you have?" Viridia smiles grimly at Amber, "Because it very well could kill me and Raizen. I would like to try and avoid that if at all possible." Now it was Amber's turn to grimace, "yeah, let's not do that." The two of them talked a bit longer about things they needed to do, in case their plans did not work and they did end up going to the capitol. The trek itself would take them a few days at least, plus there was the fact that the more people who came the slower they would go. Viridia doubted that every villager would go, more than likely once word got out they were going to march people would start slipping out to try to hide in some other town. One or two would be able to hide as non magical people, but having whole groups show up would spell disaster for everyone. From what Viridia could remember, The capitol was laid out in three concentric rings, with guards at the entrances to each one. The center ring was made up of the High Chancellor's compound and a few other houses that housed the workers and their families. The second ring was made up of shops, taverns, and Inns, as well as more homes that housed the more wealthy of the city. The outer ring held mainly the lower end houses and a few shops that catered to the poorer citizens of the capitol. If they were to try and force their way in, they would have to fight through all three circles to get to the high chancellor's compound. Information on the capitol's security was scarce beyond the fact that each ring had it's own guards. With the resistance attacks that had been happening, security had probably been amped up at least a little, even though the thought of the resistance trying to hit the capitol more than likely wasn't on their mind. The resistance had always limited themselves to more hit and run attacks than anything, so the thought of them going for a full scale fight would seem crazy. Viridia's job was now to try and find a way to fix everyones magic before  
  
The week was up. That wasn't much time to achieve the impossible.  
  
Chapter eight.  
Without the benefit of the school's library, Viridia had to rely on the memories and knowledge of how their magic work that she gained from touching the source of magic, as well as Lor-ar's own knowledge. From what she could tell, her having both sides of the magic gave her greater access to the source's magic than others that had been there. To her, it was like the source itself was providing her with the information she needed to fix what was broken. The problem was, she couldn't figure out a way of doing it that wouldn't kill her. From what she could gather she had to basically merge herself with the source. yet, if she did that it would flood her body with so much magic that it would shatter her core completely. In the split second before it kills her, she would be able to hopefully fix things. According to Lor-ar, the only thing that still binds all humans, the ones alive and the ones not yet born, was the pact. since the pact affects everyone, hopefully she could use it as a framework to fix the problem. The only thing that stopped her from going ahead and opening a portal and trying to fix it now was that she did not know what it would do to Raizen.  
  
As Viridia was trying to figure out a way to stop the war, preparations were under way for the eventual march to the capitol. Groups of young men could be seen practicing their combat magic as well as their martial skills. Every now and then Viridia would see Jazen talking to the council giving them instructions. Most were happy to finally be striking back at the light mages who had been making their lives miserable, yet it was easy to see the others as well. The uneasy looks passed between neighbors as they talked about what they would do if things went bad. The truth was, if they did attack the capitol and lost, The light mages would stop at nothing to hunt all of them  
  
down. It was three days after Viridia's meeting with Amber and Jazen that she attended a gathering of the town's inhibitants. Everyone was standing around the large bonfire with bowls of stew and tin cups of drink. The mood was almost festive, as if everyone knew this would be the last time they would be able to do this before the war. Viridia got her bowl of stew from Nelda, the kindly old woman who was spooning out the stew from a large pot. She accepted it gratefully and thanked the woman. The nights had gotten colder so Viridia was glad to wrap her hands around the steaming bowl. Viridia moved off to the right, allowing the next person to step into her place, and positioned herself with her back to the building. Viridia looked around between spoonfuls of soup, seeing where everyone was. The girls from the school were all present, they were spread out talking among the villagers. The only exception was Amber, who Viridia could not see at all. Looking around again, Viridia realized that Jazen wasn't there either. Viridia frowned then shrugged, it really wasn't her business. It wasn't like this was a mandatory gathering. As she stood there eating, she couldn't help feeling uneasy. She wasn't sure if it was because Lor-ar had stayed behind to recover from his spirit walking, or something else. All she knew was that she felt like someone was watching her and she did not like it. After a few minutes Viridia pushes off the wall, determined to find the source of the unease when a loud piercing screech echoed throughout the village. Everyone froze, looking around in confusion. Golden light radiated from above as cracks appeared as Golden lines showed where the protective enchantments were failing. Viridia stared open mouthed as the bubble that protected the village shattered with the sound of breaking glass. The stillness of the night was broken by a large fireball streaking through the sky towards one building on the  
  
left. The glow of the fire illuminated the hills around the village, showing Capitol soldiers marching in file towards the village. Pushing the water glyph through her magic, she directed the resulting geyser at the incoming fireball. It was a testament to the difference in power between Viridia and the mage who had cast the spell that it only took moments to extinguish the flaming ball before it reached them. Viridia, as well as the rest of the villagers took off running. Viridia headed to the building she had been staying in, trying to ignore the explosions happening behind her. She slammed the door open and found Lor-ar already on his feet. "They've found us," she tells him, "We've got to do something." They raced to the edge of the village, following the sounds of battle. Viridia glimpsed Jazen darting between soldiers using a blade made of darkness to strike at the soldiers. He was using the shadows to flit between them so they could not touch him. Viridia heard yells from behind her and barely made it out of the way as the men of the village ran to meet their enemies. With swords held high they clashed with the oncoming soldiers. Life fire began to fly through the sky towards the villagers so that Viridia had to spend a few frantic minutes countering their spells as well as trying to pinpoint the enemy mages positions. Viridia knew she had to keep the flames away from the villagers that were protecting their home. One mistake would mean death, seeing their spells falter, the mages began firing at her, giving the other men respite from their attacks. Viridia cast a protective enchantment around herself to give herself a moment to think. Each hit that landed on her shield drained her magic but it couldn't be helped. There were ten mages, five on each side. Each time their life fire hit her shield the ground trembled under the force. Her only consolation was with them targeting her, they were not targeting the villagers. As it seemed the mages were favoring Life fire,  
  
she began to write glyphs in the air. Drawing from her knowledge she had received from the well, as well as memories from Raizen, she formulated her plan. Life fire was powerful, The amount of magic that was drained at each hit was proof of that, but it had one flaw, Life fire still had a connection to your core until the flame was out, which left your core vulnerable to someone who knew how to exploit that. If they had just used elemental fire, it would have been weaker but safer for the caster. With a grunt Viridia finished, the glyphs shimmering brightly in the air, waiting for the trigger that would activate it. Viridia pulled back her protective barrier slightly, limiting the magic available to it, so that it would shatter under the next barrage. Viridia looked to the sky and counted the incoming missiles of fire. There were ten. As they got closer, Viridia braced herself, not knowing exactly how the spell she created was going to work. The result left Viridia on her knees. As the Life fire hit, her protective barrier shattered activating the spell she had made. The glyphs that had been floating in mid-air flared brightly before disappearing. Viridia struggled to lift her head, to see the result of her magic. Ten ribbons of light raced across the field of men, and straight into the chests of the enemy mages. Their screams could be heard clearly, even over the sound of fighting. The magic drain on Viridia was so severe, that even with her massive magic pool, it nearly drained her, hence the reason she was struggling to stand. Lor-ar, who had been keeping the soldiers away from Viridia trotted over to her side. He had blood dripping from his jaw as well as matted blood in his fur. He had a long gash in his right shoulder, his left ear was torn, and he looked more tired than Viridia could remember ever seeing him. Viridia knelt to the ground beside Lor-ar, trying to heal his wounds but she couldn't concentrate on the healing magic. Sending that much magic out at once had shocked her system, making it hard for her to call her magic. Thankfully  
  
  
she was towards the back of the fight, so she was not in immediate danger, but she was still close enough to see what was happening. Even though Viridia had killed the other mages, That did nothing to stop the other invading soldiers who were trying to overrun the village. The villagers were fighting fiercely, but they would ultimately fall to the better trained soldiers, if not because of their skill, then by the sheer numbers arrayed against them. Even Jazen, who was cutting a swath through the soldiers would not be able to stem the tide. Viridia struggled to her feet then pulled a spear from the quiver on her back. With her magic drained this was all that was left to her. With a loud yell, she ran to join the defenses, hoping that one more person might help turn the tide of battle yet knowing in her heart it would not be enough. Viridia parried sword strikes and dodged blows, trying to stab the soldiers or knock them down so that the other villagers could dispatch them. Block, stab, Block, sweep. Those were the motions Viridia kept to while she fought her way forward. The sound of an old war horn startled Viridia and she almost took a sword blade to the stomach, having to jump back and swing her spear up to deflect it at the last moment. Deflecting the blow momentarily put the soldier off balance, as he had lunged forward in his attack, so Viridia was able to use his momentum to grab him and pull him forward past her. As he went by, Viridia stabbed him through the back. Ignaring the spray of blood as she pulled her spear free, Viridia turned to where she thought the horn had sounded from. What she saw made her worry anew. Standing on the hill, surrounded by his four lower chancellors, was the High Chancellor. He stood there surveying the battle before him. The carnage below must have pleased him for he had a smile on his face that made Viridia shiver. The malice was plain to see even from that distance. Viridia could feel magical energy being gathered, It seemed to flow towards  
  
those gathered on the hill. Viridia watched in dismay as the four lower chancellors began casting a one way protective bubble over themselves and half the capitol's army. With the size of their cores, they would be able to sustain the shield for plenty of time for them to wipe out the villagers. Lor-ar sagged a bit at the sight of the enchantment. Even if Viridia had the energy to try another attack like she had done before, her spells wouldn't be able to penetrate that barrier. Lightning and spikes of earth were now being thrown through the shield, striking capitol soldiers as well as the villagers. The low chancellors clearly did not care about the lives of their men. Many died those first few moments before someone realized where the magic was coming from. Then chaos ensued. The soldiers who had been fighting just because they had orders, were now fighting to clear a path away from the magical death being thrown haphazardly around by their own leaders. Jazen now stood outside of the protective enchantment, not able to enter, yelling something that Viridia could not hear over the screams and clashing weapons. He was clearly angry, hitting the energy bubble. The High Chancellor saw this and smiled wider. The High Chancellor drew an amplification glyph, the golden words flashing for a moment before disappearing. "My good friend Jazen, it is so wonderful to see you again. You seem to be having a spot of trouble, perhaps my fellow chancellors could help you." with a look the High Chancellor directed the four low chancellors to attack Jazen. Two lightning bolts and two spikes of earth flashed towards Jazen. Viridia yelled for Jazen to run, knowing he would not be able to hear her. Jazen though did not seem worried. On the contrary, he seemed to have wanted them to target him specifically. He backed up almost ten feet and waited. The moment the magic entered the barrier, Jazen seemed to twist into darkness that shot forward meeting the magic head on.  
  
once the darkness cleared, what Viridia saw made her jaw drop. He had somehow used the Low chancellors magic to bypass the protective enchantment. With a feral grin Jazen ran for the hill. The low chancellors cancelled their protective barrier as Jazen flung bolts of dark fire out of his hands towards the chancellors. Again and again the low chancellors deflected his magic. Between the soldiers he was having to fight to make it to them, and the magic he was having to dodge as they returned fire, he wasn't doing too bad. Considering he was the only one up there. Everything was going good until a soldier Jazen thought he had killed tripped him. Jazen stumbled trying to regain his balance as a fireball exploded on the ground beside him, throwing him to the side. Within moments, three soldiers had gotten ahold of him. Jazen struggled, even attempting to use his shadow skim ability but a magical force held him in place. With teeth clenched, he lets the soldiers drag him to the hill where the High Chancellor waited with a smile. "It's a shame we could not come to an understanding," The High Chancellor says looking down at Jazen. "You killed my family," Jazen snarls, "The only understanding I wish is for you to die." The High Chancellor tsked and shook his head. "You see?" he says to the four other chancellors, "This is why we must remove the dark mage threat. They are inherently violent. They will kill anyone given time." "Violent?\!" Jazen yells struggling to free himself from his captors, "You kill innocent people in the name of justice. Where was the justice when you burned a school house that held only dark mage children. Their families wept for days begging their neighbors and friends to help them. You spout your dogma that light mages were made to rule, well I will tell you this: We will not be ruled. You may kill me. You may kill everyone here. But we will come back." The High Chancellor looks down at Jazen's upturned face. A look of disgust twisting his features. "Enough of this." The High Chancellor says. "For crimes against the capitol you have been sentenced to death. To be carried out immediately." Jazens face registered a moment of surprise before his head rolled  
  
from his shoulders. The Low Chancellor to Jazen's right used a spurt of flame to cauterize his neck. Jazen's body fell forward, released from the hands that had held him. Viridia cried out in suprise and shock. As if he had heard her, The High Chancellor turned to look at her. Their eyes locked and Viridia felt something she had never felt before. True fear. If Jazen, who had years more practise fighting light mages couldn't defeat them, how could Viridia hope to do what he couldn't. Lor-ar, who had been by her side leaned up against her, bearing her up. "Be strong little one." he tells her. Viridia nods tiredly and adjusts the grip on her spear. "let's go" she says taking a step forward. One step though is as far as she got. The moment she raised her left foot for the second step an explosion threw her and everyone else near her backwards. The concussive force disoriented Viridia and by the time Viridia was able to see again, she almost laughed aloud in relief. About ten yards from where she had stood there now stretched a large gaping portal. Outlined in the portal were Drake, Varissa, and Raizen. The ground shook as they stomped through the portal. The capitol soldiers that were still standing froze at the sight of the three dragons, swords held in mid-swing. A bright shield barrier popped into existence around the chancellors, leaving the soldiers defenseless. Raizen roared, spewing flames from his maw that gleamed like crystal. "You dare attack the true bonded of a dragon?\!" Raizen broadcast to everyone present, "Foolish people, It has been too long since my kind has hunted humans. Tonight we rectify this." Raizen turned to Drake and Varissa, "Take care of the ones hiding behind their magic." Drake lowers his head in acknowledgment before turning to the councillors. Raizen flapped his large leathery wings and with a powerful jump, he launched himself into the air. With another roar he began to breath fire down onto the capitol soldiers, who by now had started to flee. Drake and Varissa stood before the High Chancellor's protective shield. The High Chancellor at last looked  
  
uncertain. This was clearly not something he had expected. A shimery silver bubble surrounded the chancellor's golden shield. The High Chancellor looked up in suprise, "What is this?" The High Chancellor asked the low chancellors. They all shook their heads, "I've never seen this magic," one of them said trying to study it. Drake settled on his haunchs, "That is a spatial lock." Drake informs them. "I am aware that you have scrolls that allow you to open a portal. That," he says indicating the silver bubble with one black claw, "Prevents you from opening a portal while you are inside of it." "This will give my mate time to deal with your... bubble." Varissa stepped forward, her front legs crushing bodies underneath. Viridia could see Varissa gathering her magic into the claws on her right front leg. she then raised it and began to imprint glowing glyphs in front of her. Viridia could recognize a few of them, but many were so complex that she couldn't make out all of the delicate lines of the glyphs. With each glyph that was added to the air, the lower chancellors became increasingly nervous. They all knew that the longer the spell, the more difficult, the more powerful it was. The spell ended up being fifteen glyphs long. Varissa studied the glyphs hanging in the air in front of her, clearly making sure there were no mistakes. Apparently she was satisfied as she turned to Drake as if she now waited for permission. Drake nodded his head. Varissa raised her paw again and pushed a long red glowing claw into the glyphs. As her claw pushed through them, it touched the chancellors glowing enchantment. When it made contact, Viridia could see four points of magic, which Viridia assumed was the points where each lower chancellor was supplying magic to uphold the barrier, appear on the shield. Viridia was amazed to see streams of magic start to stream into Varissa, Draining the mages of their magic. The lower chancellors tried to frentically cut off their stream of magic powering the shield but they couldn't. The only one unaffected was the High Chancellor, as he had not tied his magic to the shield. They started begging the High Chancellor to help them but he just watched them struggle  
  
  
under the force of Varissa's magic. It wasn't long at all before each lower chancellor, completely drained of magic fell to the ground with a shattered core. As the last one fell, the golden glow of the barrier winked out. The High Chancellor stood there, hands clasped behind his back, staring steadily at Drake. "You think that by killing me you will be able to stop this war? You're wrong, you will only make me a martyr to my fellow light mages. They will flock to my name." Drake nods his head, "Perhaps, but you will be dead, so I do not see why that should concern you." with that Drake opens his large maw and breathes jet black flames that enveloped the High Chancellor. Drake's death affinity started to affect as soon as it touched him. The High chancellors skin began to shrivel and burn at the same time. His skull looking more like an old corpses by the second, his mouth open wide in a wordless scream. After what seemed like minutes, the High Chancellor collapsed in on himself, his bones crumbling to the ground. Satisfied, Drake and Varissa turn to observe the battle, or what had been a battle. The few soldiers that were still alive after Raizen had rained down fire on them had thrown down their weapons and surrendered. Viridia looked around at the carnage that surrounded her, and the needless death made her sad. Raizen landed beside her and Lor-ar, shaking the ground with the force of his landing. He then snaked his head forward checking Viridia out. Seeing her injuries, he pressed his snout to her forehead, flooding her with healing magic. "Thank you." she told Raizen, leaning against his familiar scales, "I've missed you." Raizen rumbled deep in his chest, "and I you." Raizen looked around, "I do not think they will be bothering you again." he says with a note of satisfaction in his voice. The sounds of dying men filled the air as Viridia pulled her self up using Raizen to help steady her. There were not many of the villagers defenders left that Viridia could see. Even with the dragon's help their losses had been high. The resistance had lost not only a leader but also a friend. "We can not let this  
  
happen again." Viridia whispers, "Not if we have the ability to change it." Raizen looked down at Viridia, "What do you mean?" he asks. With a thought, Viridia shares her memories of the last few days. It was a few minutes later before Raizen spoke. "I see." Raizen looked to where his parents still stood, waiting for Raizen to tell them it was okay for them to leave. He stared at them a moment, as if fixing them in his mind before nodding. Drake nods back then he and Varissa launched themselves into the sky and began to head west, flapping their large powerful wings. Once they were out of sight Raizen lowered his head. "This will hurt them," Raizen says softly. Viridia nods laying a hand on Raizen's shoulder before turning to Lor-ar, "Lor-ar, I release you from your bond." Lor-ar raised his head in surprise, "Little one\!" Viridia hugs him, "I'm sorry. I can not let you do this, I could not stand the thought of you being hurt anymore than you are." Lor-ar trembled with emotion as Viridia held on to him, burying her face in his fur. "I will not forget you little one." Lor-ar says when Viridia steps back. Having recovered enough to use her magic, Viridia creates a portal big enough for Raizen and her to walk through. Inside the portal was the well of magic. The cave seemed to expand to accomodate Raizen's size. The magic liquid seemed brighter than before, the light reflecting off of the caves walls. They both walked forward slowly, knowing that this would be the end. The magic seemed to beckon them closer. Once they stood around the pool, they stared down into it's depths. With a deep breath, Viridia opened her core fully, sending it streaming to the well. When it touched time stopped. The well began to pull her magic into itself, then send new magic back. More like a cycle, giving and receiving, until Viridia's body was saturated with pure undiluted magic. Raizen's whole body was getting the magic as well, due to the way they were bonded. His body was rigid beside her, the magic flooding through their bond. Viridia immersed herself into the magic giving everything she had until she felt the stream stop. Viridia found herself floating in a white and black void, seperated by a sinuous  
  
line. She floated in the middle, straddling the line. Millions of lines of magic spread from her, as if she were in the center of a large web. The lines were varied, some thick some thin. Viridia touched one. Images of a small child popped in her head. With a start Viridia realized that each line was a being. She touched a few more lightly to confirm what she had seen. Each line of magic led to their core, whether it was man or beast. In this place Viridia could feel what needed to be done.  
  
Viridia floated down until her feet touched the center of the web, connecting her to everyone that possessed a core. With infinite care, she began to weave the strands a new, pushing her magic through after each completed strand. There was no concept of time in this place, there was only the magic. Strand by strand she reconnected the humans back to the source, restoring their magic to the way it was. An eternity passed before Viridia floated back above the web. The strands of magic below her vibrated with the magic now flowing along them. Viridia gazed around her before nodding. Her job was complete. With a thought, she stepped out of the void and appeared back in the cave beside Raizen. Raizen, who had been frozen before, was now in a new form. A young man in dark black pants, white shirt and silver hair now stood before her. He grinned at her reaction. "The magic changed me as well," he tells Viridia in a suprisingly deep voice. "It's normally a few hundred years before we get our human form. I guess it accelerated my growth." He held out a hand, "Come see this." Raizen pulls Viridia to the well. Inside where the magical source was, there was only an empty well. Viridia nods and touchs her chest, "I'm still connected with the source." She tells him, "Never again will someone be able to come to this place to change our magic." Raizen stares into Viridia's eyes, "What does this mean for us?" Viridia shrugs, "I don't know. I can feel the source in me,  
  
As well as the knowledge from it. Essentially I am the source now. The only reason it did not kill me was because you were able to share the load. We will be able to tell if anyone tries something like this again." Raizen nods. "And we will stop them." "We will stop them." She agrees. With a thought she rips open a new portal to the border around the village. Before stepping though she looks over to Raizen and grins, "Now let's go see how the world has changed."  
  
The end.  
  
  
The Saeren Chronicle epilogue  
  
It's been five years since the magical rebirth. That's what everyone calls the day our magic changed. The day everyone became full mages, since then everyone has had to learn how to use their magic again. When the Goddess Saeren granted us our light and dark magic, she changed our magical channels. That's what all of the so-called experts say anyway. Since then people have been experimenting with magic that takes both sides, like some crafting and even creating portals. The last was where the trouble began. One of the scientists from the village Thaylen was trying to create a stable portal to a neighboring village, Kvora, that did not need to be continuously powered by the caster. The problem was, he was just ripping holes in space and letting them stay as long as he could before they disappeared. It was during these experiments that disaster struck.  
  
"Okay, this time try to use the stabilization glyph on the edges. Yes, there and the right. Good." Marick says watching his assistant place the Glyphs on his portal spell. Satisfied Marick instructs fen to step back. Marick touched the glyphs hanging in the air, pushing his magic into it activating the magic. The glyphs glowed gold before disappearing. A large hole ripped into existance before them like a jagged slash in the air. The portal appeared stable, and it was currently not draining his core. Marick turned to fen with a large smile on his face. Marick was confused by the look of abject terror on fen's face. Marick turned back quickly but not quick enough. A long tentacle snapped forward wrapping itself around Marick. The creature in the portal had eyes covering most of its body, with a large gaping hole for a mouth with thousands of tiny teeth. Fen watched in horror as Marick seemed to age before his eyes. Not only was the creature draining his magic, it was absorbing his very life force. Maricks skin wrinkled and shrunk until he looked like a dessicated mummy.  
  
The creature dropped Marick then a moment later the portal snapped closed, severing the tentacle of the creature. Fen backed away from Maricks body and the still wiggling limb, stumbling before turning and running. He had to tell someone. He just hoped they believed him. The Horrors had come.  