THE GIFT — Chapter 1 (author's original prose, from AO3 work 45324940)
Source: https://archiveofourown.org/works/45324940 — staged 2026-06-21 as the VOICE BENCHMARK + seed canon.
================================================================

CHAPTER 1

 

I woke up slowly to sunlight streaming across my face. I lay slumped over my keyboard, a sticky note plastered to my forehead. At seventeen I had finally reached my full height of 6’11 and my pale blond hair was in disarray. Sitting up, I stretch as I stifle a yawn. Looking at my pc I see my screensaver, a DNA double helix rotating slowly on the screen. “Today’s the day,” I say to myself. For years I’ve been obsessed with the X-men comics, the possible science behind it, and how a simple genetic mutation could change someone so drastically. So completely, that they are no longer human. I had always wondered if it would actually be possible to accomplish this, on purpose, but the technology has never been there to do it. So when a new program called Crispr was released, touted as a do it your self gene editing tool, I realized that I could finally try what I had always dreamed about. Seeing how much has been mapped of the human genome, even three years after the programs release, made me realize that it would be many more before anything substantial was discovered. So, seeing that I would have to do the work myself, I began. I had started at the top of the genome, got bored and started jumping around. Finally, after fourteen months, I made a breakthrough. Or, I assumed it was a breakthrough if it is what I think it is. I had found the mutant gene. It’s official designation is X-17 m25, but that’s just a placeholder name that it was given until someone could actually get around to testing it. To the best of my knowledge, no one else has experimented with this section, according to the documentation on the human genome project’s website anyway. Clicking the space bar on my keyboard, the computer lights up, revealing a dialog box that said, ‘Synthesis complete.’ I lay my head back in my chair and stare at the glow in the dark stars that were placed haphazardly on my ceiling. It’s been a long year so far, after moving schools three times because the foster homes kicked me out, finding out I have a sister and going to live with her. It was a lot of change. Good change, but still change. Having grown up in the system, having a real family was still new to me, but I’m adjusting. I reach for the vial in the X-01 machine I use to mix any chemical compounds I come up with, and stare at the liquid within. This tiny vial contains everything I’ve worked for these last fourteen months. I’ve never been adverse to taking risks, that’s a part of science after all, but this time I was nervous. I had no idea what was going to happen to me once I injected this into my body. In theory it should over write my current genome with this one, as it’s a modified copy of my own genome, but if I got anything wrong, there would be no second chance. Reaching into the drawer on my left, I grab a syringe and pull the serum into the barrel. Looking around, I grab my blue rubber medical and off the floor and tie it around my left arm. Leaning back in my chair, I quickly inject myself with the serum before I lose my nerve. At first, I feel a cool sensation as the liquid enters my veins, then I feel my muscles lock up, followed by a searing pain that encompasses my whole body. I couldn’t move nor scream, so I just sat there in agony until I finally passed out from the pain. When I finally woke up, I saw that the room was brighter, indicating that I had been unconscious for a while. Looking over my body, while still sitting as I didn’t trust me legs yet, everything looked normal. Except for a scar I had on my right palm, which was oddly gone. Surprised I look closed, and can see no trace of the crescent scar I had had for a few years. I had gotten the scar a few years ago when knight and I were playing in an old warehouse. Horsing around, knight had pushed me a little too hard and I fell, cutting my hand on an old broken coke bottle. So the missing scar, in and of itself, wasn’t indicative of a power or ability, but it definitely means something has happened. Well and the fact that I’m not dead is a good sign too. Reaching into my left drawer again, I withdraw another syringe so that I can draw some blood and see what has changed. Thinking about DNA, I pull out a cheek swab kit and set that aside as well. I pick up the syringe and attempt to draw some blood, before I realize that the needle isn’t piercing my skin. Surprised, I shove harder, and still the needle isn’t going in. I lay back in the chair and take a deep breath, not believing what has happened. 

“I’ll be damned,” I say out loud. I reach for my fountain pen on my desk, and stab my leg as hard as I can. Or tried to, as all it did was pierce my pants leg. I put the pen back on my desk slowly, and take another deep breath, thinking furiously about the ramifications of what I have just done. I was alive, and it worked, which was the main thing. I stand up, pushing the chair towards my bed, and take further stock of my body. I don’t eel any different, but without a way to get a blood sample there isn’t much more I can do, besides the DNA mouth swab. Grabbing the mouth swab kit from the desk, I stifle another yawn. i swab my mouth with the long Q-tip and put it in the machine and press start. Walking to my desk, I open my daily planner and check today’s entry. I’ve got a meeting with Jacob Lasner today at 4pm, to discuss the new Crispr version he had made for me, dinner at Jay’s diner at 6pm, and finally I have to meet Raven and Knight at the old warehouse at 9pm to discuss where we are with out genome research. Grabbing my phone off my desk, I send a quick text to the group and tell them that I’ve got news and I will let them know tonight. After seeing their replies, I grab my coat and head out the door and head to my meeting with Jacob.

 

CHAPTER 2

 

Walking onto the campus at MIT never gets old, with its large buildings and prestigious history, its humbling to think that some of the most brilliant minds have walked these grounds. Of the many buildings on campus, the one I am currently heading to is the tallest. The building is solid black with 29 floors and 8 elevators, 4 of which are restricted to only MIT students or employees and require a special key card to use. Which I happen to have, as Jacob had a copy made of his, so I could visit his lab or office whenever I want. Looking up at the large black building, I have to admit that it’s my favorite one on campus. After meeting so many good people here and learning of the many experiments that the general public would probably never hear of, this is truly my kind of place. Walking into the atrium, I notice Jacob waiting by the front desk. At 24 he still looked like he was 18 with his tall and lanky frame, green eyes, and boyish grin. He always seems happy and upbeat when I see him. We first started talking on an MIT forum, where I had published an article about the benefits of searching for specific genome markers, instead of trying to map the whole thing first. He had messaged me saying that he was able to make custom versions of Crispr and wanted to know if I had any ideas about features I would want in the program. When Crispr was introduced a few years ago, the media went crazy. All anyone could talk about was finally cracking the human genome. Three years later, scientists have only mapped about 9% of it so far. Needless to say, with nothing big to show so far, interest has waned and funding has been cut to most of the smaller labs, and even some of the bigger ones, as the novelty of the DIY genome editing has worn off. Jacob was one of the non-scientific early adopters of the program, taking the open source code and making major improvements to it. So, when he messaged me, it really opened up a lot of possibilities for the future of my own work. I wave to Jacob and he walks over, “Hey man, sorry its taken me so long to set up this meeting, I’ve been so immersed in my work I haven’t been in contact with too many people. Fell asleep at my desk last night,” I say with a laugh. Jacob grins then says, “I know what you mean, its’s been pretty hectic around here too. I sent the new version 9.4c to your workstation, along with some notes about the new features.” I frown and check my phone, “huh, I haven’t received any notification that anything has come in on my home pc.” Jacob laughs and hands me a new keycard, this one containing my photo. “that’s because you haven’t accessed your new computer yet. I finally got approval to hire you as an independent contractor, so you’ll have your own lab and office. They put you on the 13th floor beside me. I was hoping that it wouldn’t take this long but,” he shrugged, “ you know how red tape is.” I grin then slap him on the back, “Man I can believe you did this, hell I cant believe they allowed it.” Jacob shrugs, “You’ve been around a lot this past year, and people have gotten to know you. The only requirement for this is that you have to officially help other departments, when you can, and help with the fundraisers. You’ve got a budget to go along with your lab and office, which you’ll find out everything else once you read the packet that’s in the packet on your desk. So, needless to say, you’ve got a step up now on any new projects you want to start.” I look down at the keycard, emotions welling up inside of me. As sad as it sounds, no one has ever given me something that I have treasure more. “This means more than you can know Jacob, thanks for vouching for me.” I say. I’ve always looked at the graduates of MIT as the elite and now I am officially part of their team. We start towards the elevator at the back of the building, nodding at the guard as we pass, “Hey Pete, how you doing today?” “Not too bad, but I just got here an hour ago so that could change,” He says with a laugh. I shake my head in amusement as we head down the long hallway. “So, any advice on the new features in the new version?” I ask as we walk. “Well there is one thing,” He says, “but it’s only in the version that you have. Remember how you were working on your nanobot tech earlier this year? I finally figured out how to integrate your nanobots with Crispr, so now it should work seamlessly.” He said excitedly. “So you can use them to monitor minute changes to the genome, as well as changes to the human body. Theoretically of course. So now, anything you need you can program right in.” “Damn,” I say, “I didn’t think of that was even possible. Have you tested it on anything yet,” I ask as we step on the elevator. Jacob laughs, “Nope! That’s your job. I barely understand what you’re doing, so if something breaks I can fix it, but everything else is on you. Have you had any other ideas about new features you might need?” I lean back against the elevator wall and watch the numbers go up slowly. “Not at the moment, but I was going to reach out anyway to see if you can work on an update to my nanobot interface, the last one was 2.4, so its outdated now, especially with the Crispr integration.” I say. Jacob nods his head, “Yeah I can work on that, might take me a week or two though. Ill have to dig up the source code for it. Anything particular you wanting to in it?” he asks. I nod, “mainly biological function monitoring and sensor updates.” I say. The elevator dings as we arrive at our floor, with the doors sliding open softly. “I’ll see what I can do, shouldn’t be a problem though.” Jacob’s lab is at the end of the corridor, past another guard sitting at a desk. We stop at his, then he gestures to the door next to it and I see my name stenciled in black on the glass of the door. The automatic lights flash on brightly as we enter, the door closing softly behind us. All around the room I could see brand new equipment, test tubes and vials ready to be used. On the desk, I notice that the computer is on. “I came in earlier and set up your email account,” he says with a grin, “Now you’re officially part of the team.” He points at the email address written on a sticky note on the desk, “Your email is [email protected],” he says, “you know, since we have to use a part of your name, and since your last name is woods, I thought it fit.” I shake my head and laugh, “I like it man and besides, its way better than [email protected]. I know you like birds but still.” “Hey! Don’t diss the birds man, they know things.” He says with a grin. “Uh Hu”, I say looking at him dubiously. “Well, I’ve got to go see Prof. Maine down on 12, she wanted my opinion on the DNA splicer program they are working on. Something about a hardware integration problem. Shoot me a text or call me if you have any questions about the paperwork.” He says heading out the door. The door closes softly behind him and I turn back to the desk. I see the folder of papers that Jacob mentioned, beside the keyboard. Sitting down In the chair, I open the folder and start reading. On the first page, I see Dean Markos’ letterhead and read his letter. “Trent Woods, contained within is all the information you should need as a new contracted employee. With the ardent support of Jacob Lasner, we have convinced the board to accept you into the folds of this university. This position provides a monthly salary of nine thousand a month, as well as a spending allowance for work related expenses, the amount to be determined at the next board meeting. As for work requirements, just continue to help with the fundraisers, as you have been, as well as be on call when a department needs you. Post Script – your sign on bonus check is clipped to this packet as well. We are glad to have you aboard, and we look forward to many more years with you.” I flip to the next page, and see a check for a quarter of a million dollars. I sit there, staring at the check in shock before calling Jacob. “Is this check real?” I ask him incredulously. “Yeah man, people normally have that reaction when they see their checks, but we were able to get you a little more because you’ve been around so much, and have done so much to help out everyone here.” I hear voices in the background arguing, “I’ve got to get back there man. I’ll send someone to get that paperwork later, so just leave it on your desk when you finish.” I glance at my watch, “Shoot, I’ve got to hurry anyway, got dinner with the family at six. Just send someone in ten minutes or so.” I say, as I start signing and filling out everything. “Will do,” Jacob says then hangs up. I put my phone on the desk and flip to another page, hurrying so I can make it to the diner on time.