Chapter One

Chapter One

The sun was shining as Ne'veran stepped out of his house. Stretching his arms wide, he looks around and sees the other villagers starting out their day. Being Lammas, the Holy day for spiritual Journeys, there was a lot of preparation to be done since a good portion of the youth would be gone by the end of the day. The coming of age ceremony would start later today and Ne'varan was excited.

Looking towards the wooden stage in the center of the village, where Elder Reis would address the young people, Ne'veran thinks about what today will bring. It is forbidden to speak of what happens at the ceremony, so he does not know what to expect, yet he still feels somewhat uneasy at what was to come. At the conclusion of his journey, he would be a full-fledged member of his village, able to vote and work among his peers.

Ne'veran sighed, then headed back inside to get his pack, the only items he was allowed to bring packed within it. Stepping inside, he spots his mother, pale blonde hair in a ponytail and usual blue apron, sitting at the table. She smiled when he entered, her blue eyes lighting up.

"Here's my young man," she says when he sits opposite her at the table. "Are you nervous about today?" she asks, reaching across the table and taking his hand. Ne'veran shrugs, not trying to deny it. She could always tell when he lied.

"Of course," he said. "I've got no idea what the ceremony is, there is no way to prepare for it, and the outcome will determine the rest of my life, Gods willing I don't screw it up. Who wouldn't be nervous?" Ne'veran shakes his head, "Sorry Mother, I just can't help feeling like today is going to change everything and I do not know if I am ready."

Syrena smiles down at her son, "We are never ready for what the Gods will. All we can hope for, is to get something we can use out of it. The Gods are not everything, even though they control much of our life. You can change your life, if that is your wish."

Ne'veran looks at his mother, trying to figure out what she was really trying to say. Syrena reaches under the table and lifts up his pack.

"I packed your things," she said, as the bell on the platform outside started to ring. "You don't want to be late," she said, standing. Syrena handed him his pack and gave him a quick hug. "Just remember that I love you, no matter what happens."

Ne'veran smiled at his mother nervously, then stepped out into the shining sunlight. With the sound of the closing door behind him, Ne'veran steps into the line of young people heading towards the wooden stage, where Elder Reis was already standing, waiting for them. Once they formed a circle around the stage, the Elder began to speak.

"Today," he began, "you awoke as babes to the realities of the world. Not knowing how your lives would be changed by this day's end. We commend your bravery in being here. In facing the unknown, know this, it truly is unknown. We forbid speaking of this ceremony, because everyone's experiences are different. Your path will not be the same as another's, so there is no use spreading uneasiness or worry when there should be none. Now," he says pointing towards a large doorway, with a red oak door with white glyphs moving on the surface, "When I call your name you will walk to that door. You will place your right hand on the door, if you are right-handed, your left if you are not. Then you will speak your name. Clearly. Is this understood?" Elder Reis looks around to make sure he sees nodding heads. "Good," he says.

"Stand fast and everything will be okay. Now," he pulls a roll of parchment from his sleeve, "Up first. Reagen."

Ne'veran looks around and sees a smaller boy, sun glinting off his glasses, stumble to the door. As he approaches it, the white symbols stop moving and a yellow handprint appears on the door. Reagen visibly exhales, puts his left hand on the handprint, which was a perfect fit, then said his name, "Reagen Norheart." Reagen stepped back as the door opened inward, revealing a mountainous plain.

"Enter Reagen Norheart, son of Vizer Norheart," a soft female voice echoed from inside the door. Once Reagen stepped through, the door slammed shut, the sound echoing in the silence. The Elder nodded in satisfaction.

"Good, good," he says, as he looks at the next name on the list. "Ah, next we have Ne'veran Kras."

Ne'veran stepped out of the line, avoiding the stares of his peers, as he walked slowly to the door. As he approached, the white sigils moved faster then disappeared altogether as two red handprints appeared on the door. Confused, Ne'veran looked to Elder Reis on the stage on how to proceed, but he looked as confused as he did. And worried. Elder Reis nodded at him, to put his hands on the door. Ne'veran turned back to the door, place his hands on the door, and said his name.

"Ne'veran Kras," he said, more confidently than he felt.

With a loud boom that made everyone cover their ears, Ne'veran included, the door swung open.

"Ne'veran Kras, Son of None. Enter\!" a loud angry-sounding voice yelled from inside the door.

Ne'veran stared into the blackness, the only thing he could see in the doorway. There was no hint of light beyond where he now stood. Feeling like the blackness was drawing him in, the last thing he can remember is the soft sound of the door closing. Ne'veran was floating, that was the only way he could describe the way he felt. There was no hot, nor cold. There was nothing.

"Is this to be my future?" he wondered.

"Of course it's not," a voice beside him said dryly.

Surprised, Ne'veran turned to his right and saw a boy about his age with red hair and clothes that matched his.

"Sorry about that," the boy went on, "this is the first time I've ever pulled one of you, so it's new to me as well. I had to check on my brothers and sisters or I would have been here sooner." The boy ran his hand through his hair, making it stand up.

"I'm sorry," Ne'veran began, "but who are you?"

At that the boy froze. Looking at him with a raised eyebrow, the boy asked, "Who do you think I am?"

Ne'veran looked the boy over. "Sir, I'm not sure. It is forbidden to speak of the ceremony, so I am not aware of the possibilities."

The boy threw his head back and laughed. After a few moments, the boy wiped tears from his eyes. "Ah, I forgot that was a rule you people had to follow. Well, your peers, not you. You may call me Father. You will learn my true name in time, but for now that will suffice."

Within a blink of an eye, they were standing in a sandstone temple. "Sit," he commanded Ne'veran, pointing at a bench before a small pond. "It is time you learn the truth of your world."

Ne'veran walked to the bench, his feet barely touching the stone floor. Sitting down, he faced Father and waited for his words.

"You call us Gods, which is true in a sense, yet there are rules we have to follow, just as there are things you can not do. When this world began, there was so much energy and magic, it was inevitable that something would go wrong. Yet, it created us. We believed that when something happened, we would be able to fix whatever was wrong. We felt nothing could stop us." Father spread his hands and a man appeared. Green eyes, long white hair, and a body with a military bearing, seemed to look right at Ne'veran. "Until this man did something that we can't fix," Father said with such a look of hatred that Ne'veran swallowed hard and looked down. "He has opened a gateway to another Dimension that has frayed the very fabric of our universe, and all the others along with it. There have been reports from my family that creatures and people from other worlds are appearing randomly, and we are doing our best to keep interactions between the people of this world, and the other worlds, from interacting, but with it happening more frequently," Father shrugged, "there's not much else we can do. That's where you come in."

Father beckoned him to come to him. Ne'veran came and kneeled in front of Father, but Father pulled him up.

"You will bow to no one, Ne'veran son of none, now Ne'veran son of Father. You will know magic by sight and learn to use your own to protect this world and all others. There will be pain. Oh yes, and tragedy. Yet, you must stand fast and press on, even though all seems lost. The world will be different when you arrive, now that your eyes have been opened to magic. You will see things as they truly are, but remember, things are not always as they seem to be. The most hideous-looking person could be the sweetest person you'll ever meet. Whereas the most beautiful person could be hiding the blackest heart. Always try and look beneath the surface to see the truth underneath. So now, I charge you thus: fix the rift, mend what has been broken. Only then will things return to normal."

Father placed his hand on Ne'veran's brow, and a searing pain went through his head. Ne'veran lay there gasping, waiting for the pain to abate. Once he could think clearly again, he looked up to see Father looking at him.

"I'm sorry that I cannot provide more help. As bound as I am, I can only unlock what is inside you. I hope that it is enough. Now go, Ne'veran son of Father," Father said, pointing at a simple brown door that had appeared behind Ne'veran. "It is time for your Journey to begin."

Ne'veran stood up and stumbled to the door. Looking back to get one last look at the God that had changed his life, yet Father was nowhere to be seen. So it was, with no idea what awaited him on the other side of the door, Ne'veran steeled himself and pulled the door open and walked through.

  
Chapter Two

Ne'veran appeared on the wooden platform beside Elder Reis, amid gasps from those assemble. Ne'veran turned to Elder Reis to ask what had happened and was surprised to see him on his knees in front of him.

"The Father's blessing," the crowd repeated, also on their knees.

"What's going on?" Ne'veran asked gently, helping Elder Reis to his feet.

Elder Reis gently shook his brown robes to shake off the dirt, then shakily pointed to a rotating sigil, gold and red, that was floating above his head. As he stared at it, the sigil faded and disappeared. With the last traces of it gone, the crowd of young people turned to each other, back on their feet, talking excitedly about their journeys, seemingly already forgetting what had just happened. The sound of their voices, such a normal thing, steadied Ne'veran.

"Elder, what just happened? I've never heard of something like this happening," Ne'veran asked as he turned to Elder Reis.

Elder Reis shook his head quickly and pulled him off the stage while everyone else was still talking. "Not here," he said quietly, "Wait until we reach my house."

A few moments later they stop in front of a small one room house close to the edge of the village. The light breeze making the flag that hung from the doorway move back and forth. Ne'veran had never been inside of this house, as most official matters were held in the council hall, and he had not the age nor the wisdom to be admitted to the council. Pulling open the stout wooden door, Ne'veran sees that it is sparsely furnished with a simple bed with white sheets, a medium-sized wooden table with one chair pushed underneath it, and a fire pit with a large cast iron cauldron for cooking hanging above it. Elder Reis motions for Ne'veran to take the chair, then pokes his head out his door to make sure there was no one about. Once he is satisfied, he firmly shuts the door then sits on the edge of the bed, facing Ne'veran.

"I'm sorry for the hurry, but it was for the best." Ne'veran sees Elder Reis's hands were shaking, yet he just stared until the Elder continued, "I've never heard of anyone getting the Father's Blessing and living, so when I heard that voice when your door opened I feared the worst. Then there is this." Elder Reis reached under his straw mat and pulled out a parchment. "A messenger came in to the village last week bearing this. It's a notice to all Elders that if any person came in to contact with the one named Father, we are to report it to High Elder Neir in Vargiah. The penalty if we do not is death. I could not take the chance that anyone, after the initial trance, would remember you."

Elder Reis ripped up the notice and threw the pieces into the air, where they caught fire. The black ash fell lightly on the floor amid the silence of Elder Reis's revelation.

"So, what does this mean for me?" Ne'veran asked, his mind reeling with the implications of what he had just been told.

"You must leave at once. Do not let anyone know where you are going, nor let anyone know you plan on leaving. You must leave in complete secrecy." Elder Reis pulled his coin pouch from his waist and tossed it to Ne'veran. "Use this to make your way. There is a group, called the Morias, who study the ancient magicks. They will be able to help you. They do not fear the High Elders, nor even death. Tell them I sent you and they will take you in. There is a shop in the next town, called Vorals Curiosities. The owner's name is Rathas and he can help you get to the Morias. Just tell him I sent you and he will grant you safe passage."

Ne'veran tossed the coin pouch up in the air and caught it. "I have to admit," Ne'veran said, continuing to toss the pouch in the air, "I know I'm in danger. I know there are more pressing matters, yet my curiosity is overriding that. Tell me what you know about Father."

A faraway look entered Elder Reis's eyes, and it was a few moments before he answered in Father's voice, "Come now son, do you not have more pressing matters, namely you endangering your village by remaining with them, instead of asking this old fool what he can not possibly know? I told you that you will find out more about me in time, when you are ready. Now," he said, lifting his hand. A blue glowing portal, perfectly circular, appeared in front of the door. It was just big enough for Ne'veran to step in to. "Leave this place at once. I will not have you endanger your people any longer to satisfy your foolish curiosity."

Ne'veran dropped to his knees and bowed to Father, then stood and hurried through the portal, not knowing where it would leave him. When Ne'veran stepped through, the heat from the sun made him dizzy for a moment. His village was usually much cooler. Ne'veran looked back in time to see the portal wink out of existence. Ne'veran sighed then started looking for which way to go.

To his right he spots a dirt road leading east, so he walks to it and heads down it. Walking for a while, lost in his thoughts, he doesn't spot the man sitting quietly on the side of the road. It was an older man with matted black hair and a beard streaked with gray. His clothes were of a typed he had never seen before. His pants were short, with what looked like pouches sewn on the legs, and a black shirt with a symbol of a dragon. When Ne'veran approached the sitting man, the man opened his eyes, revealing their bright, shining gold color.

"Please help me," a voice sounded in Ne'veran's head.

Ne'veran stared at the old man, still sitting there staring intently at him. Ne'veran stepped forward and knelt in front of the old man.

"What help do you need?" Ne'veran asked quietly.

The old man looked troubled for a moment, then jumbled pictures entered Ne'veran's mind of places and people he had never seen. Tall buildings reaching into the sky, the old man surrounded by other young men all wearing the same clothes, charging across a field. There were so many images coming so fast, Ne'veran reeled back, stumbling to his feet trying to escape the mental barrage coming from the old man.

"Stop\!" Ne'veran yelled, "It's too much\!"

The old man looked down, "Sorry," the voice in his head said.

Ne'veran tried to steel his mind, in case the old man couldn't help himself again. "Look, I'm not sure how much I can help you. I'm stranded out here myself. If you want you can walk with me and we can try and get you some help. Just be careful with the mind thing."

Ne'veran holds out his hand, and the old man grasps it, letting Ne'veran pull him to his feet. The old man stood unsteadily and dusted off his pants.

"My name is Kir'sora," Ne'veran heard in his mind.

Ne'veran nodded his head in acknowledgment. "Mine is Ne'veran. Do you have any idea where we are?" Ne'veran asks.

Kir'sora looked troubled for a moment, then shook his head.

Ne'veran sighed. "Didn't think so. Let's just follow this road then and hope we come across a town or something."

A few hours later a lone building comes into sight on the right side of the road. Stopping a few yards from the simple house, Ne'veran turns to Kir'sora, "I think that I should do the talking," he tells him. "I'm not sure how they will react to your mental speech."

Kir'sora nodded his head. "Of course," he replied to Ne'veran. They walked in silence to the house, looking around for any sign that anyone was outside. Knocking on the door, they both hear the loud barking of a dog coming from inside.

"Quiet, you mangy mutt\!" a woman's voice screams at the dog.

With a loud yelp, the dog quiets. The door creaks open slowly and a young woman peers out at them.

"Yes," she asks, only opening the door a few inches.

"I'm sorry to bother you, but we happen to be lost. Could you tell me how far we are from Landros?" Ne'veran asks politely.

The woman looks them both up and down, then opens the door a little wider. The large dog peering at them from in between her legs.

"Landros?" she asks, "Geez, that's got to be a good fifty miles or more that way." She pointed, indicating the way that they had been walking.

Ne'veran turned to Kir'sora, "Looks like we keep walking." Kir'sora gave him a small smile as they both started to turn back to the road. "Thank you, ma'am," Ne'veran said as he turned.

"Wait," she said as she opened the door all the way. "You plan on walking the whole way?"

Ne'veran looked back at her. "I've got some pressing business there, and my companion is just coming along with me," he replied.

The woman bit her lip for a moment. "If you want to hang around outside for a few hours, my father will be back from the market. I'm sure if you cut some of our firewood or something he wouldn't mind taking you. He doesn't really travel anymore like he likes to," she confides. "Ever since my mama passed, he's stayed at home more and more often."

Ne'veran looked her over again, trying to gauge how old she was. "I'm not trying to be rude," Ne'veran says, "but how old are you? I'd have sworn at first glance you were a woman grown."

The woman turned defensive, "I'm sixteen, I'll have you know," she said, crossing her arms.

Ne'veran held up his hands in a placating gesture, "I'm sorry, I was just curious. The Elders in my village always said my curiosity would get me in trouble," he said with a grin.

After a moment the girl drops her arms and grins back. "It's okay, my papa says the same thing about me. My name's Lora, by the way," she says, sticking out her hand. Ne'veran shakes it.

"Mine's Ne'veran, this is Kir'sora," he says, indicating his companion. Lora shakes his hand as well.

"Can he talk" Lora asks Ne'veran, still looking at Kir'sora.

"Of course I can talk," Kir'sora says in a strong mental voice. Kir'sora grins as Lora steps back, shocked, then grins back at him.

"Cool\!" she says, "I've never met a telepath before. My Dad says there is a large community of telepaths up near Kysmer."

Kir'sora looks confused at Ne'veran. "There are others like me?" Kir'sora asks.

Ne'veran shrugs, "I don't know. You're the only one I've ever met, so I guess that's just something we'll have to ask when he gets here." Ne'veran looks up at the sky, noting it was getting lower. "We've got to get started on that wood if we are to have it done by the time your papa gets home."

Lora nods her head, "I'll bring you some water to drink in a bit," she says.

Ne'veran nods his thanks and heads over to the wood pile on the side of the house. Kir'sora follows him and grabs the axe before Ne'veran can get to it. Testing the weight with one hand, he motions for Ne'veran to place a log on to the stump.

"I will do this," he says to Ne'veran.

Ne'veran raises a questioning eyebrow at Kir'sora, but all he does is motion again for him to place a log. So for the next two hours Ne'veran places the logs, and Kir'sora splits them, the only sounds the huffing of breath when he swings the axe down. A loud whistle makes both of them pause. Looking toward the front of the house, Lora stands there with a surprised look on her face.

"You didn't have to do ALL of it," she says with a laugh.

Kir'sora looks back to the pile where just a few logs remained and gave a sheepish shrug. "Sorry," he said with a silent laugh shaking his shoulders. "It felt good to have a purpose again."

Lora shook her head in amusement. "It's okay, I can definitely assure you that he will not mind."

Just then, a creaking sound drew their attention to the road, where they could see a large muscular man on a large covered wagon, with an equally large white horse leading it. A few minutes later the wagon pulls to a stop in front of the house and he climbs down slowly.

"Well my dear, what strays have you brought home this time?" he asks Lora, never taking his eyes off of Ne'veran and Kir'sora.

"This is Ne'veran and Kir'sora," she says, stepping up and giving her papa a kiss on the cheek. "Kir'sora is a telepath, like those people you had told me about."

"The name's Ceranie," the large man says as he ruffles his daughter's hair. "Kir'sora, I've never seen a telepath this far from Kysmer. You're a long way from home."

Kir'sora shook his head, "I'm not from there."

Ceranie didn't look convinced but let it pass. "And you, Ne'veran was it? What brings you out this way?"

Ne'veran thought for a moment, trying to decide whether what to say. "Truthfully, I started my Journey today. I walked through a portal and ended up a few hours walk west of here."

Ceranie gave a snort of disgust. "Always be wary of portals, boy, especially when you aren't the one that set it. Grab that pack out of the back, Lora, and meet us inside."

Ceranie put his arm on both their shoulders and brought both of them inside and shut the door. "Now," Ceranie says, releasing them and folding his arms in front of him, "what exactly do you two need?"

Kir'sora looked to Ne'veran to answer. "We were needing a ride to Landros if possible."

Ceranie looked thoughtful for a moment. "Why do you need to go there?"

"It's part of my Journey," Ne'veran answered simply.

Ceranie nodded. "Well then, as it is for your Journey I'll help you. Let it not be said Old Ceranie didn't help one on his Path.You two can sleep in the barn though. The loft should be warm enough."

Ne'veran and Kir'sora both nodded their agreement. Ceranie opened the front door and beckoned Lora inside. Lora hurried past them carrying a large bundle of goods, then tripped on her own feet. The bundle came undone and the items went everywhere. Ne'veran and Kir'sora hurried to help pick everything up and put it in a pile in the center of the room. Kir'sora picked up a sword that looked like it had been well-cared for. He pulled the blade from the sheath and just stared at it, seemingly lost in thought. Ne'veran and Lora continued gathering up the various other weapons and cookware and placed them in a pile, not noticing Kir'sora's absence. Ceranie stood back, watching Kir'sora.

"Attention\!" Ceranie barked in a loud voice.

Ne'veran and Lora were so startled that they dropped what they were holding, yet Kir'sora held fast, the blade held straight out left fist to his breast. Kir'sora looked guiltily at Ceranie, sheathed the blade and placed it on the floor, then hurried out of the house, closing the door softly behind him. Ceranie chuckled, then stepped out after him.

Ne'veran looked to Lora. "What was that about?"

Lora shrugged, "Papa does a lot of things I don't understand. He will explain if you ask him. Papa says an unasked question can get you killed."

Ne'veran nodded his head. "I can see that. Do you mind if I meditate for a bit?" Ne'veran asks, pointing at an empty corner of the room.

Lora nods her head absentmindedly while she starts on dinner. Ne'veran walks to the corner and sits cross-legged facing the corner and closes his eyes. Within a few moments, he has slowed his breathing and emptied his mind. Floating in nothingness, he is suddenly pulled to the temple he had seen that morning. Father sat upon the steps, dressed in a simple brown robe.

"Come, my son," he said, beckoning Ne'veran to sit beside him. "Ne'veran, my boy, how was your first day of your Journey?"

Ne'veran sits beside him, wondering how he got here.

Father laughs, "Well, you aren't really here, just your mind. I've decided to grant you access to my temple to train, if you wish. I seem to have forgotten how curious mortals can be, and I may have been a bit rash this morning in dismissing you. While you are here, you can spend as much time as you wish, and no time will pass in the mortal world. I think, anyway." Father shrugged, "I've never allowed someone unlimited access to my temple, so I can't be entirely sure of anything. To be safe I wouldn't spend days in here, but anything less should be okay," Father said brightly.

"So, what exactly am I to train in?" Ne'veran asks cautiously.

Father looked at him incredulously. "Magic, of course\!"

Father held out his hand and a glowing planet appeared on his palm. "And history, well, learning our history and how our planet came to be. I think to fix what has been broken you must learn how it began in the first place."

Father closed his fist, the planet disappeared, then opened his hand again. This time a scroll rotated above his palm. "You will have access to the libraries here, once you learn enough to understand what you read."

The scroll disappeared and Father lowered his hand. "A great burden has been placed on you. Your Journey will not be easy, but I will help do what I can." Father snapped his fingers and a podium appeared in the middle of the temple, with a large leatherbound book on top of it. "When you come back, start with that book. I will get you a tutor to hep with your magic. Now, I think it's time for your dinner."

"Huh?" Ne'veran asked, confused. A moment later a hand was on his arm.

Lora stood next to him, "Ne'veran, dinner is ready."

Ne'veran stood up shakily, putting a hand on the wall to steady himself. "Thank you, Lora. I seem to have been lost in my thoughts."

Lora just smiled at him and handed him a bowl and a wooden spoon. "It's okay. I get the same way when I commune with my god."

Ne'veran looked to her quickly to ask what she meant, but then the front door opened. Ceranie walked through, followed by Kir'sora. Lora shook her head quickly, then looked away.

"Ah, my daughter, it smells wonderful\!" Ceranie said when Lora handed him a bowl.

Lora rolls her eyes with a smile, "You always say that, Papa."

Ceranie laughs, "That's because it's true."

Lora hands Kir'sora a bowl, and he and Ne'veran sit against the wall on the floor, since there was only two chairs.

"Are you okay?" Ne'veran asks Kir'sora quietly.

Kir'sora just nods his head and starts eating.

"We'll start out at first light," Ceranie says between slurps of soup. "We should be able to make good time, starting that early. Do we still have that map with the new troop movements?" he asks his daughter.

Lora thinks for a moment, chewing on the hard bread. "I'm not sure how accurate the troop placement is. We haven't had a merchant guild through here in two weeks."

Ceranie grunted and soaked up the last of his soup with his bread. "It'll have to do. I'll try and get new numbers on our way." Ceranie placed his bowl on the table and stood up. Stretching for a second, he walked to the pile on the floor and starts picking through it, making a smaller pile. "You'll need some supplies for your journey," Ceranie says. "Can't give much, but it's more than you have now."

"We thank you for what you can help with. I do have coin to trade," Ne'veran said, holding up his coin pouch.

Ceranie waved it away, "Put it away, boy," he said gruffly. "You might need it later. Besides, you might come across someone who needs help someday. All I ask is that you help them like we've helped you."

Ne'veran nodded and put his coin pouch away. A few minutes later, Ceranie stood beside the small pile with two sheathed swords in his hand. Looking at Kir'sora, he placed them on top of the pile. Kir'sora nodded at him then looked down. Ne'veran pushes himself off the floor and places his and Kir'sora's bowl on the table.

"Thank you again for letting us stay the night, and for the ride in the morning. We'll leave you be for the night, and we will be ready for you in the morning." Giving a smile to Lora and shaking Ceranie's hand, Ne'veran heads out the door into the night. Closing the door behind them, Kir'sora falls in step with Ne'veran.

"Thank you for not asking about the sword in there," Kir'sora says softly in Ne'veran's mind.

Ne'veran looks sideways at Kir'sora. "We all have a past. It was not my place to speak of it."

Kir'sora opened to door to the barn and waited until Ne'veran had climbed the narrow ladder to the loft, before closing the door behind him.

Once Kir'sora had settled himself in the loft beside Ne'veran, he asked the question that had been on his mind. "What is your Journey?" Kir'sora asked.

"I have been thinking on it, and I can't figure it out." Ne'veran looks steadily at Kir'sora, his face illuminated by the moon shining through the window. "What is yours?" he counters.

Kir'sora shrugs, "My Journey is over."

Ne'veran frowned. "What do you mean?" he asks.

"On my world, we follow a Path. That Path is usually chosen at birth. I was to be a soldier," Kir'sora says, with a look of pain on his face. "Not long before I came to this place, our leader killed my brothers. The only family I've ever known."

"But why?" Ne'veran asks, confused. "There had to have been a reason."

"Oh, there was," Kir'sora said bitterly. "We learned too much. I barely escaped with my life, if you can call what I had left a life."

Images of Kir'sora running through a burning village, sifting through burning logs trying to find anyone else alive flashed through Ne'veran's mind.

"I'm sorry," Ne'veran said softly.

Kir'sora shook his head and the images cleared. "After being on the run for days from the king's new army, I saw what looked like a mirage. I fell through it with no way back. Which may have been for the best," he admitted. "I may not have lasted much longer."

They both say in silence for a bit, lost in thought.

"My Journey is to try and fix those holes that brought you here," Ne'veran said. Kir'sora nods, waiting for him to continue. "Being honest, I'm not sure how I'm going to do that. I'm still learning. Heck, I had never left my village before that start of my Journey," Ne'veran admitted.

Kir'sora nods again, "That is why it is called a Journey. You must learn." Kir'sora looks hard at Ne'veran, then kneels in front of him. "I have no home. My path is done. So, I will follow you and help with yours if you will have me.

Shocked, Ne'veran stammers out, "Oh, uh, of course. I mean, if you are sure."

Kir'sora sits back with a smile. "Thank you. It's good to have a purpose again. Now, we must sleep if we are to be gone at first light."

Kir'sora lay back and closed his eyes. Within a few minutes he was snoring softly. Ne'veran shook his head in amusement, marvelling at how fast he fell asleep. Ne'veran moved around and laid his head back against the wall so he can look up at the moon.

"Father, I hope you've picked the right person for this." he says, then closes his eyes and is soon fast asleep.

  
Chapter Three

The next morning, loud banging on the barn door startled Kir'sora and Ne'veran awake.

"Time to go\!" Ceranie yelled, throwing open the barn door.

Soft morning light streamed in around his large figure. Ceranie reached down beside him and tossed two packs inside, each with a sword strapped to the top.

"Lora packed these for you last night. There are some foodstuffs in there as well." Ceranie told them.

Lora peeked around her father and smiled at them. "I get to come with you all\!" she said excitedly.

Ne'veran grinned at her, "Awesome\!"

Ne'veran and Kir'sora climbed down from the loft and shouldered their packs. Walking out into the morning air, Ne'veran sees that Ceranie has stowed the covering that had been on the wagon.

"The weather mages say we shouldn't have rain for a few days." Ceranie said, noticing Ne'veran's look.

"Weather mages?" Ne'veran asks.

Ceranie laughs, "Sorry, boy, I keep forgetting that you're not long out of your village. A lot of mages just have one affinity, or specialty. There is a group out in Zeva that are strictly weather mages."

Ceranie pulls out a parchment from his own pack. Opening it and showing it to Ne'veran, he says, "In most major cities you can buy these maps that show the weather. The problem is that the magic only lasts a few days, and then it's only a normal map again."

He hands Ne'veran the map. "See here," Ceranie says, pointing to Landros, "That's where we are going. We are here." Looking to where Ceranie was pointing, they were about 200 miles from Kysmer. "There are only two small villages beween us and Landros and we need to stop in both of them. I'm thinking about going all the way to Kysmer." Ceranie looks at his daughter, "I think it would do the both of us good to get out and about for a bit. Climb on up, kids, we need to get on the road."

Ne'veran helps Lora into the wagon then jumps up behind her. Turning back to Kir'sora, he holds out a hand and pulls him into the wagon. After making sure that the horse's bridle and harness was secured, Ceranie climbed on to the front bench. With a loud click, Ceranie cracked the reins and they started slowly forward. Bouncing along the road, Ne'veran watches Lora, laying her head back and looking at the clouds.

"Pretty, isn't she?" Kir'sora says, nudging Ne'veran on the arm. Ne'veran looked at Kir'sora in alarm. "Don't worry," Kir'sora said, sending a mental chuckle, "I can choose who I send my thoughts to. It makes up for not being able to actually speak, I guess."

"Why can't you talk?" Ne'veran asked, curious.

Lora looked at Ne'veran, "Huh?" she asked.

"Neveran is wondering why I can't speak," Kir'sora said.

Lora nods. "I've been wondering that myself, if I'm being honest."

Kir'sora shrugs. "I'm not sure. I could speak on my world, and I did not have the ability to speak with my mind. When I came to this world, I was robbed of my speech but given this instead."

"Have you heard of this, Papa?" Lora asks Ceranie.

Ceranie nods, "Not exactly like this but I've heard stories. Mainly of people gaining some ability when they come to our world. The High King Alten is reportedly hunting down anyone who comes through. 'To study them,' he says. I say he locks them up. No one in Kysmer has seen any of the newcomers again, once Alten gets his hands on them." Ceranie turns and looks straight at Kir'sora, "That means don't let anyone else know. Say you got your telepathy as part of your Journey. Most people, excluding ranking people and Elders, will stop asking questions once you bring up your Journey, seeing as it's taboo to talk about."

Kir'sora nods, "Thank you for this."

Ceranie nods back, then turns back around. The sounds of the wagon creaking down the road lull Ne'veran into a light doze. A while later, Ne'veran is jolted awake by the wagon jerking to a stop.

"Are we here?" he asks groggily.

Kir'sora laid his hand on Ne'veran's arm and pointed. In front of them was a village, or what had been a village. Smoldering buildings littered the landscape. Bodies were on the road, with some hanging from the trees.

Lora sat there with a horrified look on her face. "Who would do such a thing?" she whispered.

Kir'sora jumped down, sword from his pack in his hand. He unsheathed the blade, tossed the sheath in the wagon, and walked carefully to the first building on the road. They all sat quietly while Kir'sora walked from house to house, occasionally checking bodies. Kir'sora ripped something from a door, then walked back over to them.

"There is no one here. I found this, though I can't read it," Kir'sora stated.

He handed the parchment to Ne'veran. Ne'veran starts to read, "By the order of the High King. If anyone is found to have given refuge to out-worlders, or does not inform the High King of their existence, their punishment shall be death." Ne'veran looks up to Ceranie. "We must go. We can not endanger you or your daughter by being with you." Kir'sora nodded firmly in agreement.

Ceranie looks troubled. "As much as I hate to admit it, you are right, my boy. I can't endanger my Lora any more than she already is." Ceranie sighed. "Here," he says, pulling a different map from the pack on the front seat of the wagon. "It's not new but it might you an idea where Alten's troops have been."

Ne'veran looked at the map and saw multiple units of troops outside of Kysmer. "Thank you, sir," Ne'veran said, pushing the map in his own pack.

They stood for a moment, none of them wanting to leave yet, when Lora ran and wrapped her arms around Ne'veran.

"We'll probably go to my aunt's house, she lives on the coast north of Kysmer, Salinas. Just ask for Zifrina." She gave him a quick squeeze, then jumped on the front of the wagon. "Be safe, boys."

Ceranie said, "It would be best to travel by night if possible. If not, stay off the roads so that you can hide. I hope you find what you are looking for in Landros."

Ceranie shook both their hands then climbed in beside his daughter. With a quick flick of his wrists, the large horse started forward, going faster than before. Once the wagon was out of sight, Kir'sora started pulling Ne'veran to the tree line.

"We need to get out of sight of the village," Kir'sora told Ne'veran.

Ne'veran tightened the strap of his pack and both of them hurried to the trees. Once under cover, Kir'sora motioned that they could stop. "We can stop for a bit to figure out our next move."

Ne'veran sat with his back to a tree and placed his pack between his legs.

"Is it important that we go to Landros?" Kir'sora asks from where he sat cross-legged across from Ne'veran. Ne'veran sat there for a moment.

"It's a step on my Journey. There is a man there, Rathas, who I am supposed to seek out there. Elder Reis from my village said I should seek him out. He will get me to the people who can help me mend the gap between our worlds."

Kir'sora sat there, listening to his words. "You have much to learn," Kir'sora said, shaking his head. "How do you know that you are not being sent there to harm you?"

Ne'veran shook his head vehemently. "No, Elder Reis would not do that."

Kir'sora shrugged his shoulders. "Perhaps, perhaps not, but until we know for sure we must be extra cautious. Agreed?"

Ne'veran nodded his head slowly.

"I hate this is happening to you," Kir'sora said, "but the greater the struggle, the greater the growth. If you manage to survive, that is," he said with a sardonic grin. "Now we must go," Kir'sora said, rising to his feet. "We will try and make it as far as we can before nightfall."

Ne'veran clambered to his feet.

"Then, tonight we train."

"Train?" Ne'veran asked.

Kir'sora indicated the swords in each of their packs. "You've got to learn to protect yourself. There's no telling what we might come across. So, if we are to make there alive, we must both train."

Ne'veran nodded. "Thank you," he said, "I will do my best."

Kir'sora nods back, then they start through the trees, keeping the road in sight.

  
Chapter Four

"Should we even stop in the next town?" Ne'veran asks a few hours later.

The noon day sun was shining through the trees. Stopping for a breath, Ne'veran looks out to the road.

Kir'sora thinks for a moment. "We probably shouldn't. Not with your High King's men about. We've only seen one small patrol so far, yet they may have more in the village. Be best to skirt the village, I think."

Ne'veran nodded. They had gotten worried when they had seen the small patrol, no more than ten troops from the tree line, but the patrol had hurried on, seemingly in a hurry to get somewhere.

"Did you notice anything about them?" Kir'sora had asked once the danger had passed.

Ne'veran thought back. "The only thing I noticed was that they seemed about my age, I guess."

Kir'sora nods, "That's true. Also their uniforms did not have much dust or dirt on them. And they looked too new."

"How is that possible? I mean the next village is at least another day's walk."

Kir'sora shrugs, "Best guess would be they have not been on the road long. Maybe they came through a portal? Like the one that brought you near me?" Kir'sora asked.

"Yeah, that's possible, I guess. I'm not sure how common magic like that is."

"I don't know either. Let's get going," Kir'sora says. "We still have a ways to go before nightfall."

So, with that, they had pressed on, pushing bushes out of the way and picking their way over fallen logs. They kept going, trying to put as much distance as they could between them and the enemy.

That night, they went deeper in the forest so that they could have a campfire and not be seen from the road. Kir'sora took two stones from a pouch on his pants and struck them together. After a few tries he had a fire going in front of him.

Ne'veran looked curiously at the stones that were still in Kir'sora's hand, "What are those?"

"Hmm?" Kir'sora looked down, "Oh, this one is flint and the other is granite." He struck them together again in the air to show Ne'veran the sparks the stones made. "I always kept these in my pocket where I came from. Never know when you need fire." Kir'sora put the stones back in his pocket.

Ne'veran set down his pack and rubbed his shoulders. "Do you think we will reach the next town tomorrow?" Ne'veran asked.

Kir'sora watched Ne'veran dig through his pack for the hard bread and dried nuts that Lora had packed in each of their bags.

"It's possible. We might reach it by nightfall tomorrow."

With a triumphant grin Ne'veran holds up the bread and nuts. "Got it. So, we just keep to the woods, right? What if the next town is like the first one?" Ne'veran asks as he slowly starts to eat.

Kir'sora looks to the road. "I'm not sure. We've got enough food to last us to Landros, but we need information. Otherwise, I'd say we just press on." Kir'sora shrugs. "We'll just have to see."

While Ne'veran eats, Kir'sora takes a different stone out of his pouch. Setting it aside, he pulls his sword from his pouch and unsheaths it. Looking at the blade in the firelight, he grunts.

"What is it?" Ne'veran asks, setting his food aside and pulling his sword from his pack as well.

Kir'sora picks up the stone and starts running it up the edge of the blade in quick, even strokes. "It's not a bad blade, as blades go, but whoever owned this last must not have know how to sharpen a blade properly. That, or he didn't care."

Hearing the tone of the last statement, Ne'veran raised a questioning eyebrow. Seeing his look, Kir'sora sighed.

"Your weapon is your life, be it a knife, sword, or even a mace. If you take care of your weapon, it will take care of you." Kir'sora tossed the sharpening stone to Ne'veran, then pulled another from his pouch. "This is your first lesson. That sword," he said, point to the sword on Ne'veran's knees, "is now your brother. Everywhere you go, it goes. A sword does no good if it is on the ground or back at camp, so we will keep them at hand at all times. Now, position the stone like this." Kir'sora said, showing him how to position the stone on the blade's edge. "Good. Slide it to the end, keeping steady pressure all the way to the end."

Kir'sora watched Ne'veran for a few minutes, making sure he was doing it right. Finally satisfied, Kir'sora returned to sharpening his own blade. They say in silence, the only sounds being the crackling fire and the whisk whisk of the sharpening stones on their new blades. Ne'veran sat watching Kir'sora, matching him stroke for stroke. Their movements a steady rhythm.

"Would you want to go back?" Ne'veran asks suddenly, breaking the silence.

Kir'sora lifts his head and looks at Ne'veran, never breaking stride with his stone. "I don't know." Kir'sora says softly. "There is so much pain there for me. I'm beginning to feel that this could the fresh start that I needed."

Ne'veran nods, "I can understand not wanting to go back to that."

Kir'sora nods back and falls back silent. Ne'veran leaves him to his thoughts. Clearing his mind, Ne'veran starts to meditate. Using their rhythmic sounds to lull him into the trance, Ne'veran appears just inside the temple, facing the podium with the large leatherbound book he had seen last time. Ne'veran looks around, not seeing Father, he shrugged and began to explore.

Walking around the huge columns holding the roof up, he sees a room off to the right. Inside looks to be a library, with a large table in the center and a large map on the table. When Ne'veran tries to enter the room, he is stopped by some unseen force. As he tries to push through the unseen barrier, an old man in a white robe appears beside him.

"You won't get through it," he says simply, his kindly face peering up at Ne'veran. The old man kept his hands clasped in front of him as he continued, the firelight from the brazier beside them reflecting off his shiny bald head. "It's Father's wish that you start with that book first," he said pointing at the book on the pedestal. The old man gently takes his arm and pulls him to the book.

"Where is he?" Ne'veran asks, lifting the book and walking to one of the stone benches.

"He is occupied with other things," the old man replies simply.

Seeing that he would not gain any more information, Ne'veran sighs and turns to the book. Looking at the spine for the title, all it says is "History."

"What all does this cover?" Ne'veran asks, looking up. Surprised, Ne'veran looks around but the old man had disappeared. Ne'veran shakes his head and laughs, "At least it isn't boring here\!"

Ne'veran looks back down to the book and opens it's large cover to see a blank page. Confused, he starts flipping through the book but every page is the same. Ne'veran turns back to the first page and just stares at it. Then, right before his eyes, a picture began to appear on the page as if someone was just then drawing it. Stroke by stroke the picture began to take shape. A few minutes later, Ne'veran looked in amazement at a picture of five people standing around a campfire with their hands raised. Above the campfire was a large circle that looked like the globe that Father had shown him last time. Ne'veran slowly turned the page and saw that it was filled with words now. He leaned over the book and started to read.

"What is magic? Where did it come from? Where did WE come from? Those are the questions which I will aim to answer by the end of this book. Years ago, depending on your perception of time, in another, only a select few had magic. It was so rare to have true magic, that people feared it. So, they began killing the people that possessed it, not knowing that the magic would just transfer to another."

Until one day, the fire crafter named Kynes came across a temple to Father. Crumbling and broken down though it was, Kynes realized what he had found. Crying out to Father, he asked for his help to stop the killing. Father agreed. Father made a crumbing tablet appear that had instructions for a spell. A spell that could very well kill them all, yet if they pulled it off, there would be no more death because you were different."

"So, with a new plan, he contacted his fellow magic users and they met to discuss his idea. That fateful night, each of them around the campfire, he convinced them that they had no choice. That it was their duty to help the world. So, with everyone in agreement, they all raised their hands to the sky, pouring all of their will and magic into Father's spell. Then, with a flash of light, their world was no more."

"Yet, that was not the end. With their deaths, they had created a new world. One filled with magic and wonder, that no one should be killed for possessing something as common as magic. Father wants those crafters remembered for their courage and willingness to sacrifice everything to do what they felt they had to do."

Ne'veran leans back and thinks about what he just read. So that's how our planet came to be. Ne'veran closes the book and walks to the podium and sets the book back in place.

A moment later he is back at the campfire, still sharpening his sword. After a few more minutes, Kir'sora stops and sheaths his sword.

"That's enough for tonight," he says and lays the sword beside him. "Let's get some sleep."

Ne'veran nods and copies Kir'sora, laying the sword so that it is within easy reach. As he starts to drift off, he falls asleep dreaming about five people changing their world at all cost.

The next morning, Kir'sora led the way through the woods, keeping an eye on the road. A few hours in, they spot a travelling group heading the same way they were. Keeping an eye on them, Kir'sora turns to Ne'veran. "What do you think about joining them? Or at least trying to get some information?"

Ne'veran looks back the way they had come, and bit his lip in thought. "We could. You'd have to play the part of a mute, though."

Kir'sora shrugged, "It's a small price to pay for information. Besides, I can speak to just your mind too. So I won't be exactly mute," he says with a grin.

Together they make their way to the road, surprising the driver of the wagon when they came through the brush.

"Ho there\!" Ne'veran called when the driver saw them.

The driver stopped the wagon and signalled to the other people walking around them. They all stared at them as they made their way to the waiting group. There were a few small children in the back of the wagon, their curious eyes peeking over the sides at the newcomers, while their mothers tried to keep them down. The other men standing around the wagon all had hands on their sword hilts as they approached. Ne'veran and Kir'sora kept their hands away from their belts where their weapons hung.

"Sorry for the unusual approach," Ne'veran greeted. "We've been travelling in the woods since we saw that village a few days ago."

One of the men closest to them spoke up, "Which one?"

Ne'veran turned to him. The older man still had his hand on the hilt of his sword, but he was more relaxed now.

"The map said it was called Baen." Ne'veran told him.

"Was?" the old man asked, looking concerned.

Ne'veran nodded. "When we came to it, someone had burned the buildings and killed most everyone there. We did find this," Ne'veran pulled off his pack and rummaged around until he found the notice that Kir'sora had pulled from a door there. Ne'veran handed it to the old man.

"This can't be right\!" he exclaimed. "We just went there last week\!"

The old man handed the notice to one of the women in the wagon. She read it and started to cry, handing the paper to another woman. Soon, the paper had been read by everyone and more people were crying. The man that had been driving the wagon was not crying but he looked sad as well. Seeing Ne'veran's puzzled look he jumped down from the wagon, the soft thump of his feet hitting the ground barely audible over the crying of the women. He pulled Kir'sora and Ne'veran aside to explain.

"A lot of these folks have relatives that lived there. With small villages, everyone gets to know everyone else. We're actually just returning to Naeldron," he said.

"I'm sorry that I've brought such sad news," Ne'veran said softly, looking on while the husbands comforted their wives.

The driver just raised his hand in a "what can you do" gesture. "They don't blame you, I'm sure. It's just hard news to hear at any time. Is that why you were travelling in the woods?"

Ne'veran nods. "My uncle and I came across the village and decided it might be better to travel off the road for a while. We did not want to come across any of the people that might have done that."

The driver nodded his understanding. "Makes sense, I'd have done the same. If you're still headed our way, you're more than welcome to join us. The name's Vora," he said, sticking out his hand.

Ne'veran shook it, "Mine's Ne'veran, my uncle's Kir'sora. He doesn't speak," Ne'veran explained.

"Well, that's alright," Vora said, shaking Kir'sora's hand. "Most people say I talk enough for two, so he'll fit right in. Hey Ken," Vora said, turning to the old man that had first read the notice. Ken walked over to them, still visibly upset. "I know you're all grieving, but we need to get going. With news like that I'd not want to come across one of the High King's patrols while we are away."

Ken nodded, "You're right. I'll let the others know." Ken walked back to the others and Ne'veran watched as they herded the kids back into the wagon.

"I'll let the others know you're coming along," Vora said, walking to the group.

Ne'veran stood, silently watching them for a moment before turning to Kir'sora. "I hate we had to meet them with news like that," Ne'veran said.

Kir'sora nods, "I agree. All the more reason to hurry to Landros. Hopefully there will be safety in numbers. We should reach the next town by nightfall. Tomorrow, if we keep up a steady pace."

Vora jumped in the front seat of the wagon and motioned them over. "Everyone is good. We're going to pick up the pace a bit so let me know if you need me to stop or slow down."

"Thank you," Ne'veran said, "I will."

Ne'veran and Kir'sora fell in place beside a young man with long brown hair and a thin wispy mustache. "Nice to meet you," he said, shaking their hands, "My name's Oren but everyone calls me Bug."

After introducing themselves, Ne'veran asks, "Why do they call you Bug?"

Bug laughs, "Part of my Journey, really."

Ne'veran held up his hands, "Sorry, I shouldn't have asked."

Bug just waves his hand, dismissing it, "Nah, it's okay. I've never seen the point of not talking about your Journey. Who knows, maybe talking about your Journey could help someone else with theirs." Bug shrugs, "That's just my opinion, anyway."

Ne'veran thinks about that, their feet making a steady rhythm. "I can see that. What is it that makes it so taboo?" Ne'veran asks.

"I guess because it's so personal. I mean, your God has talked with you and set you on a Path to become who you are meant to be, and I guess some folks want to keep that to themselves." Bug shrugs again and shifts his pack to his right shoulder. "My God gave me the ability to talk to small insects," he said, explaining his nickname. "The last time I spoke to my God I asked her why it was that she granted me that one gift. She told me it was to remind me to always think of the bigger picture. A lot of days I get selfish, I think it's all about me. Then one day I have a fire ant on the end of my nose reminding me otherwise," he says with a laugh.

Ne'veran laughed with him, "I can see your God keeps things interesting."

Bug nods, "Absolutely, but I wouldn't have it any other way."

Ne'veran and Bug kept up a steady conversation most of the day as they ate up the miles toward their destination. When they had stopped for the night, the other men started setting up tents and the mothers were trying to get their kids settled down. Bug asked the question that had been on his mind.

"So, where are you two headed?" he asked, tilting his head in Kir'sora's direction.

"We're headed to Landros to meet up with my sister," Ne'veran lied easily. Kir'sora nodded his agreement.

"Ah, okay," Bug said, running his fingers through his hair. "I was just curious because these days there are not too many people on the roads, what with bandit attacks and the High King's army moving about."

Kir'sora looked sharply at Bug. "Ask him what he knows about the army," he said to Ne'veran's mind.

"Do you know anything about the army? Like, have you seen them yourself?" Ne'veran asked.

Bug shrugs, "Only seen them once myself. We had camped in the woods a few weeks back, well off from the road so we could see it but not really be seen. I'd guess it was around midnight or so, I was the guard on duty when I saw a bright portal open in the air right above the road. Well, I doused the fire right quick, I can tell you that\!" he says with a laugh. "I crawled forward on my belly so I could see better, and then a large group of people came through. Well, soldiers," he corrected himself. "Anyways, there must have been about fifty or so. Didn't look much older than myself, to be honest. After they came through, the portal closed and they just marched on."

Seeing what Kir'sora's next question would be, Ne'veran asked, "Any idea where they might have been headed?"

Bug rubs his jaw in thought. "Hmm, well, if I had to guess, based on town size, probably Chiromante. There's a few small villages between where they were and Chiromante, but that would have been my guess."

Ne'veran nods his thanks for the information, "I haven't been out of my village long, so I'm trying to learn about as much as I can."

Bug laughs, "I understand, trust me. It's a completely different world once you leave." Bug yawns, his mouth opening wide. "Sorry, man, I'm beat."

Ne'veran claps him on the shoulder, "No worries, friend. My uncle and I will set up nearby. Please wake us when it is time to set out."

Bug nods and claps Ne'veran on the shoulder as well and joins the other men. Kir'sora follows Ne'veran as he walks around the other men so they could make their own small campfire away from the others. Ne'veran gathered some brush for the fire while Kir'sora walked a ways from him. Once Ne'veran had an area cleared for the fire, he waited for Kir'sora to return.

A few minutes later, Kir'sora appeared in front of him and tossed two sticks beside Ne'veran. Ne'veran looked up in surprise because he had not heard Kir'sora return. Ne'veran inspected the sticks while Kir'sora started the fire. Each stick was about the size of their swords, with the smaller branches snapped off of each of them. Lifting one, he noticed it was heavier than he had expected.

"What are these for?" he asks Kir'sora.

Kir'sora unties his belt and shrugs off his pack before answering. "Training," he says. Kir'sora slides his sword from his belt, then reties it. "We will train with those first, before you train with this," he says, lifting his sword.

Ne'veran copies him, pulling his sword off and laying his pack aside. Kir'sora clears a patch of ground of all debris and tells Ne'veran to stand there. Taking the remaining stick, Kir'sora demonstrates the correct way to hold it. Once Ne'veran got that down, Kir'sora continued teaching.

"Using this," he says, holding the stick up, "is not about attacking or trying to kill someone. It is about defending life, your life or someone else's. We take no joy in the kill, but we do not hesitate to make the cut. These are the simple truths you must know."

Kir'sora sets his feet, left foot back with the stick extended forward in his right hand. "We do not hesitate to lay down our lives for our people." Kir'sora whips the stick in a simple thrust and cut move. Resetting his stance, he repeats the move more slowly.

Ne'veran watches closely and tries to match the unfamiliar actions. "Close," Kir'sora says, moving Ne'veran's arm in the form. "No hesitation. Once you commit, follow through no matter what. Hesitation can be the death of you and everything you love." Kir'sora moved Ne'veran's arm a few more times, then stepped back and watched. "Much better. Now, try this." Kir'sora then goes and stands in front of Ne'veran. "We will add a parry, thrust, and cut.'

Ne'veran watches as Kir'sora goes through the motions, trying to pay special attention to the angle of the sword and the placement of the feet. Once Kir'sora felt that Ne'veran had it down, he holds up his stick. "Now let's see how you do."

Ne'veran holds up his stick against Kir'sora's and the fight begins. Ne'veran followed the motions like he had seen, but he could never get a touch on Kir'sora. Back and forth they went, around the campfire, the sound of their sticks clacking against each other the only sound of the otherwise silent night.

Getting frustrated, Ne'veran tries to twist his stick in a move he thought might disarm Kir'sora. Instead, Kir'sora stepped away and whipped the stick sharply across Ne'veran's hand. The stick fell from Ne'veran's numb fingers. Ne'veran stared at his numb fingers for a moment, before looking up and giving Kir'sora a rueful grin.

"Sorry about that," he apologized to Kir'sora as he massaged his fingers.

Kir'sora shrugs and tosses his stick beside the campfire, "It's okay. You are young, so I expected it. You pick up the art quickly," he admits.

"Doesn't feel like it," Ne'veran says with a laugh.

Kir'sora lowers himself carefully to the ground on the opposite side of the campfire. "I've trained many people," Kir'sora says, "I can tell when one has a gift for the sword. Back on my world, everyone was trained to a certain degree. The main purpose was to instill discipline. The only ones trained further were the ones to be soldiers. In the King's army, I personally trained all the new recruits. From sword fighting to marching, I did it all." Images of fresh-faced recruits marching in formation flashed through Ne'veran's mind. "There was nothing I could do while he killed them all," Kir'sora said softly, staring into the flames.

They sat in silence then, each lost in their thoughts. Kir'sora, in his past, and Ne'veran, not knowing how to help his friend.

"You need to sleep," Kir'sora says, standing. "I'll be back soon, just going to scout ahead a bit."

Ne'veran just nodded as he watched Kir'sora disappear in the darkness with his sword in his hand. Looking around, Ne'veran sees some more branches he can put on the fire, so he gathers them up and dumps them on the flames. Stretching out beside the renewed fire, Ne'veran stares at the stars peaking through the trees and drifts to sleep.

  
Chapter Five

Later the next day, while the men talked quietly about things they needed to do when they returned and the women talked about some new sewing they were working on, Bug was unusually quiet. Noticing this, Ne'veran stepped over to him.

"Are you okay?" he asked quietly.

Bug gave him a non-commital shrug, "Something's going on."

Before he could explain further, Bug looked up in alarm. "Everyone stop\!" Bug yelled. "Get off the road now\!"

Vora yanked hard on the reins and steered the wagon off the road while the men scrambled to each side of the road. One of the men didn't quite reach the side before a large portal appeared in the middle of the road, cleanly slicing a man in two. His wife screamed from the back of the wagon, while trying to jump off the wagon to reach her husband. She would have made it, except the other women held on to her.

A moment later, a group of men appeared wearing the same uniforms that Ne'veran and Kir'sora had seen a few days earlier. Ne'veran glanced at Kir'sora and both of them moved to the back of the group, to hopefully prevent being seen.

The group of soldiers totalled about fifteen once they were all through. Right before the portal closed, another man stepped through. Kir'sora looked quickly at Ne'veran when he heard sharp intake of breath. Ne'veran stepped back even further. The last man that had stepped through wore a simple brown robe and a necklace with the medallion showing him to be a High Elder. Waves of magic seemed to radiate from the man. Ne'veran shivered at the unfamiliar sensations.

"Magic," he said shakily, "so much magic."

Kir'sora nodded his understanding. Very slowly, Kir'sora rested his hand on his sword. With his thumb, he lifted the sword from its sheath, then let it drop back down, checking to make sure he could draw his sword quickly.

The man in front of the group stepped to the front of the wagon. "Vora, if I remember correctly, you were ordered to stay in your village."

Vora sighed, then climbed off the wagon, facing the man. Although he was a head shorter, he was more broad in the shoulders.

"You know I couldn't do that, Zevo. Just because you order something in the name of your High King, doesn't mean people will just listen. Some people still remember you before you joined his army."

Zevo looked pained, "I can't help you this time," he said quietly. "Alten is sending High Elders with the scouting parties now to make sure his orders are being followed." Zevo glanced behind him to see where the Elder was. "Things are getting worse," he said quickly. "I can't save you but I might be able to save these people. Maybe."

Biting his lip, he returned to his group and began to converse with the High Elder. Ne'veran watched them, wishing he could hear what they were saying. Ne'veran felt drained for a moment, then he could hear their conversation as if he were standing right there.

"You know your orders," the High Elder was telling Zevo. "No one is exempt from their orders. Not me, and surely not you."

"I know, High Elder, yet is it bad to have some compassion as well?" Zevo asked, clearly pleading for Vora.

"You are not ordered to have compassion," the Elder said coldly. "You are to carry out your orders as instructed. Unless we need to reevaluate where your loyalty truly lies?" the High Elder asks with a questioning eyebrow.

Zevo stes back quickly, "Of course not, High Elder."

The High Elder steps forward, "Then do as you have been commanded, because I assure you, if I have to carry out your orders for you I will not be as pleasant once I finish." Zevo sighs once the High Elder walks away.

Unconciously stopping the magic, Ne'veran relays what he had heard to Kir'sora.

"This is going to end badly," Kir'sora admitted. "A straight-up fight I can deal with, magic I know nothing about. I don't see these people standing by while one of their own is killed in cold blood."

Kir'sora checks that his blade is free again without thinking. Ne'veran nods, trying to think of somehting he can do that doesn't end with all of them dead.

"You realize that you have magic too, right?" a voice said in Ne'veran's head. Ne'veran looked to Kir'sora, but he was looking at the group of soldiers.

"But I don't know how to use it," Ne'veran said.

Kir'sora looked at him, "Don't know how to use what?"

That's when Ne'veran realizes that the one who had asked him a question had a different voice. Ne'veran just shook his head, then thought to the unknown voice, "Who are you?"

The voice sighed, "No time for that, I'm afraid. Suffice to say that Father sent me. Now, the thing to remember with magical combat is focus. If you lose focus you can lose your life."

Zevo started walking towards Vora, hand on his sword.

"Oh dear, looks like we have less time than I thought. Okay, time for the crash course, lad. If you think fire, there will be fire, you just have to direct it. Your magic is based on thought. Direct your thoughts where you want your magic to go."

Zevo stopped in front of Vora. "Vora," he began loudly. The other men turned and focused on Zevo, hands on their weapons. "As much as it pains me, the law is the law. You were ordered on pain of death to not leave your village, yet here you are. So, in full knowledge of your crimes, do you willingly accept your death?" Zevo looked in pain as he said the last.

"I do," Vora said, kneeling down.

Zevo then drew his sword, long silver blade shining with the noon day sun. "I'm sorry, friend," Zevo said quietly, then swung his sword down at Vora's neck.

Seeing the swing, Kir'sora said something in another language, then seemed to appear out of nowhere at Vora's side. Sword drawn, he deflected Zevo's blade. Zevo looked in surprise at Kir'sora.

"Who are you?" Zevo asks, stunned at his sudden appearance. "That's of no importance." Zevo lowered his sword, "I have to do this," he said.

"No, you don't," Kir'sora says. "You choose to do so because you think it's better than the alternative."

The High Elder, watching the exchange, then steps over to them. "Are you going to stop this man from doing his duty?" The High Elder asks Kir'sora.

In response, Kir'sora raises his sword and sets his feet the way he had shown Ne'veran.

"Very well," the High Elder says, acknowledging his choice. As if on cue, the other soldiers drew their swords. "Then we shall show you no mercy."

The High Elder raised his hand and shot a blast of air at Kir'sora, knocking him backwards, where he fell and lay still, before Ne'veran could yell at him to dodge. Taking that as a sign to attack, the other soldiers charged forward.

Ne'veran pulled his sword free just in time to deflect a thrust aimed at his stomach and tried to remember what Kir'sora had taught him. Setting his feet, he parried the soldier's next blow then thrust forward, catching the soldier in the leg. Wincing, the soldier looks down and sees bright red blood start to seep through his pants leg. Limping back, the soldier looks at him warily. Then, with a quick step forward, swung his sword at Ne'veran's head. Seeing the move, Ne'veran darts under the blade and stabs the soldier in the heart, killing him.

With a grunt, Ne'veran pulls his sword free from the dead man's body, then starts looking around frantically for Kir'sora and the High Elder. Suddenly, Ne'veran feels magic coming from his left and barely dodges a stream of fire that the High Elder had sent at him. Instead, the fire hit a soldier in the chest that had been coming up behind him, setting him on fire. The burning soldier's screams mingling with the others dying around him. The High Elder just looks at Ne'veran, his face contorted with hatred.

"You've got Father's blessing," the High Elder spat. "I should have known."

Spotting Kir'sora on the ground behind the High Elder, Ne'veran begins to pick his way through the fighting to reach them. Ne'veran dodges blows and starts pushing men out of his way, determined to reach the High Elder. Finally Ne'veran breaks free of the fighting and stands across from the Elder.

"You don't know who you are messing with, boy," the Elder said angrily. "I wield magicks you can't possibly begin to fathom."

Ne'veran lifts his sword and starts to edge around the High Elder, trying to place himself between Kir'sora and the Elder.

"In all fairness," Ne'veran said lightly, trying to hide the tremble in his voice, "I don't even understand my own magick, so you saying that doesn't scare me."

The High Elder growled and Ne'veran could feel magic welling up inside the High Elder. "You'll pay for your insolence\!"

The High Elder then spread both arms wide and shot a large stream of fire at Ne'veran. Acting on instinct, Ne'veran closed his eyes.

"Breathe in," a voice in his head told him. Ne'veran took a deep breath. "Focus your will." Ne'veran imagined the fire returning to the High Elder. "Now, release." Ne'veran let out a gasp as a flood of magic raced from his body, his eyes snapping open in time to see the fire reverse, straight back to the High Elder.

The High Elder's eyes widened in horror and surprise. He tried to turn and run but the fire blasted him to the ground. Ne'veran watched in horror as the High Elder rolled on the ground, trying to put out the fire, his tortured screams the only sounds now as everyone had stopped fighting to watch the grisly scene. After a minute the High Elder gave one final high-pitched scream as his skin started to slough off of his bones. Everyone was silent as the High Elder's life faded away and all that was left was a bleached skeleton on the ground.

Looking aroud, Ne'veran saw that the few soldiers left alive had thrown down their weapons and were now kneeling on the ground in surrender. Ne'veran nodded at Bug, who had a line of blood running from a gash in his forehead, and Bug started to gather up the soldiers' weapons. Ne'veran turned back to Kir'sora and saw that his friend was beginning to sit up.

"Fool blasted me right on to a rock," Kir'sora grumbled. "Knocked me senseless." Ne'veran helped him to his feet. "I'm sorry I wasn't there to help you." Kir'sora said, hanging his head low.

Ne'veran gripped his shoulder, "I'm just glad you are okay."

Kir'sora looked at the skeleton on the ground. "You did good," Kir'sora bends over and looks closer at the skeleton, "whatever it is you did."

Ne'veran just shrugs and they walk over to where the soldiers were still kneeling on the ground. They lifted their heads when they approached. Bug walked over to them.

"They want to surrender," he said quietly. "They said they are throwing themselves at your mercy."

Ne'veran looked at the kneeling men. "You," Ne'veran said, pointing at the last man, a youth really not far past his twentieth year, "walk with me."

The young man stood shakily, then followed as Ne'veran led him away from the group. Once they were out of the others' hearing, Ne'veran turned to the man.

"What's your name, soldier?" Ne'veran asked.

"Hearn, sir," the soldier replied. He lowered his eyes, not wanting to meet Ne'veran's gaze.

"Hearn. Where are you from?"

"A small village right outside of Kysmer."

Ne'veran thought for a moment, trying to place the village he remembered from the map. "Oh, Lyn-Scalion?" Ne'veran asked.

"Yes, sir," Hearn replied.

"Tell me why we should accept your surrender, Hearn. Help me to understand how you could kill innocent people, orders or not."

Hearn looked at him, meeting his gaze fully. "Sir, you wouldn't understand."

"Try me," Ne'veran countered.

Hearn swallowed hard and looked away. "We didn't want to be here in the first place," he began, "Hell, most of us didn't even want to be in the Army. It's not our Path, we were just pushed into it." Hearn looked back at his companions. "When the High Elders came to our village they promised our families they would be taken care of if we joined. Hell, they had so much gold with them, and most of us were so poor, it wasn't really a decision. At first, anyway. The only ones they wanted at first were the ones close to their coming of age. Then they decided if you could hold a sword you were good enough. They ended up taking every man fourteen and up. The Elders used some kind of magic on us, forcing us to walk with them. No matter how hard we tried we could not stop our feet until we reached Vorgiah. Once we entered the city's gates, the magic disappeared but we were trapped. They separated us from the young ones, and we didn't find out why until later."

Ne'veran raised his hand, stopping him. "What was the reason?" Ne'veran asked.

"They wanted to see who the God was. I saw them kill this one girl that was born and raised in Vorgiah right after her ceremony."

"Why?" Ne'veran asked.

Hearn shrugged, "Something about who her God was."

Ne'veran looked at the High Elder's skeleton, "Go on."

"Not much else to tell. We were trapped, so we did what we had to do to survive. They said if we ever tried to run they would kill everyone in our family, so we just stayed. We all joined the scouting party because they usually don't see much action, and we were away from the Elders so we could be more lenient than if we were with the main army. All that changed when they started sending an Elder with every scouting party."

"Do you know why they started doing that?" Ne'veran asked, curious.

Hearn laughed, "I'll say. About a week ago I was standing guard during a council of the Elders. There were some low rank Elders among the High Elders as well. Well, about halfway through the council, one of the low rank Elders stood and asked to speak. When that Elder spoke, the rest of the Elders froze. You'd have thought they had been turned to stone," Hearn looked like he was enjoying himself, "The High Elders started backing away when he started to speak. 'You keep killing my children, and expect me to do nothing. You, who have perverted the ancient ways. Soon, there will be one you can not stop. Him, you shall fear. Enjoy your petty games while you can. My son is coming for you.' Then he opened a portal under himself and disappeared. Once the portal was closed there was just silence. No one moved, hell, I didn't even hear them breathe. They were terrified."

"Do you know who Father is?" Ne'veran asked.

Hearn shrugged, "Not really. I've heard some of the Elders say that he's one of the ancient gods, if not THE most ancient one, other than that, I've no idea."

Ne'veran turned to where Kir'sora stood nearby. "Bring the other soldiers," he told Kir'sora.

Kir'sora nodded, then went to get them. A minute later, the five remaining soldiers stood in front of Ne'veran.

With Kir'sora by his side, Ne'veran began to speak, "In a moment I'm going over there to talk to the men whose friends you killed. Hearn here has told me your story. What outcome do you wish?"

The men looked at each other, then at Hearn. Hearn looked at them and nodded. Hearn then turned to Ne'veran.

"We wish to join you. If you plan on going against the Elders, or Gods above even the High King, you'll need an army, and we can help. All of us have spent time in Vorgiah and Kysmer."

Kir'sora nodded his head at that. "He's got a point there," he said to Ne'veran. "That information is valuable indeed."

Ne'veran agreed. "I'll bring it up to them," Ne'veran promised.

Hearn nodded his thanks.

"Stay with them," Ne'veran said, under his breath, then walked over to Bug.

Seeing his grim face, Ne'veran asks, "How many did we lose?"

Bug looks around, "We lost six, not counting Vora. Bad day."

Ne'veran nodded, "Bad day is right."

They stood there watching as the remaining men dug graves on the side of the road, their wives weeping softly beside their husband's bodies.

"You know this is only the beginning." Ne'veran said, "When they realize that their High Elder isn't coming back, they'll be after blood."

Bug looks wearily around him, "Of course they are. What can we do?" he asks Ne'veran.

Ne'veran glances back at the soldiers still standing by Kir'sora. "We can fight," Ne'veran replied, "fight for our families. Fight for our future."

Bug looked him in the eye and asked softly, "How? How are we supposed to fight an army of them?" he asked, pointing to the skeleton. "If you hadn't have been here, we'd all be dead."

Ne'veran nodded, "Maybe so, but I am here. Plus, we have them." Ne'veran jerked his thumb at the soldiers.

Bug looked back, "Them?" he asked, not understanding.

"I've talked to them. It was magic that forced them into the army, and fear for their families that forced them to stay. They've got information we can use to help us."

Bug thought about it, "Will they help?" Bug asked.

"They want to help bring them down," Ne'veran replied.

Bug nodded, "I'll convince the others, but you might want to tell them to keep their distance in the meantime."

Bug then clapped Ne'veran softly on his shoulder and walked to his friends. Ne'veran watched him go, then returned to the soldiers.

"What's the verdict?" Kir'sora asked.

Ne'veran waited until he was standing in front of the soldiers before he replied.

"Bug," he said, pointing at Bug so they would know who Ne'veran was talking about, "is going to convince the others of the wisdom of allowing you to live and to join us, but don't expect them to be happy about it. Hearn," Ne'veran said, turning to the man, "I'm putting you in charge of these men as of now. You report to either me or Kir'sora. They do anything out of line, it's on you."

Hearn then turned to his men. "Is that understood?" he asked them.

"Yes, sir\!" they all said in unison.

Hearn turned back to Ne'veran, "Thank you, sir."

Ne'veran nodded back, "Don't thank me yet. There's no telling what I just dragged you into."

Hearn just grinned, "Such is a soldier's life."

Ne'veran noticed that Kir'sora had stepped to the side, as if waiting.

"Have your men by the road ready to leave shortly. We don't want to still be here if someone else comes through a portal," Ne'veran commanded.

Hearn saluted, left fist to his breast, followed by the other soldiers and they marched off.

Kir'sora waited until they were out of earshot, then asked, "Where exactly can we go? We're on the run and now we've apparently got a group, which makes it that much harder to hide. We can't protect all of them."

Ne'veran chewed on his lip, "I know, but what was I supposed to do? Let them kill everyone?"

Kir'sora shook his head, "That's not what I'm saying. We've got to think about more than us now is all."

Kir'sora waved Bug over. "What's everyone's thoughts on the situation over there?" Kir'sora asked Bug after he jogged over.

Bug runs his fingers through his hair, "Well, they're angy, scared, hurt, you name it. They aren't too sure what to think about everything. It was so sudden."

Ne'veran saw sadness on Bug's face.

"You know they can't go home," Ne'veran said softly, "and you can't either. It's too dangerous."

Bug gave him a dejected shrug, "Some of them will anyway. It's the only place they know."

Ne'veran looked on as some of the women clung to their husbands, just thankful that they were alive.

"What about you?" Ne'veran asked, turning to face Bug.

Bug continued watching the families, thinking about his answer. "I have no home really to go back to," he said with a shrug. "And besides, who else is going to keep you out of trouble?"

Ne'veran gives him a grin, "Thank you, Bug, I mean it. I truly wish we had met under different circumstances."

Bug just punches his arm, then walks back to the others. Kir'sora nudges Ne'veran then, showing him a spot on hte map. In bright, golden letters the words "Go here" had appeared above a forest to the north. Ne'veran frowned at it, then looked at Kir'sora.

Kir'sora just shrugs and says, "Don't ask me, it just appeared."

Ne'veran took the map and studied it.

"I think we should send the others there and keep the soldiers with us while we go to Landros, then meet back up with them there," he said, pointing at the map.

Kir'sora nodded in thought. "It would keep the soldiers away from the grieving men and women and give them time away. Can we trust this?" Kir'sora asks, pointing at the map.

Ne'veran though about it, "I'm not sure, but I might be able to find out. Will you watch over me while I meditate?" Ne'veran asks.

Kir'sora takes out his sword and nods, "Of course."

Ne'veran nods his thanks, then kneels on the ground. After a few deep breaths, Ne'veran was calm enough to enter the trance. The temple appeared darker than it was the last time.

"Father?" Ne'veran asked, walking up the marble steps of the temple, his words echoed in the empty hall.

"He's busy at the moment, I'm afraid," a voice said from behind him.

Ne'veran turned at the sound of th soft woman's voice.

"I'm sorry, miss," Ne'veran said, dropping to one knee. "I didn't see you there."

Standing before him was a beautiful woman with flowing brown hair that reached her waist, a dark green dress the color of leaves in the autumn, and sparkling golden-brown eyes. She smiled down at him.

"Please stand, brother," she said, lifting him to his feet.

"Brother?" he asked her, still trying to catch his breath.

"Has Father not claimed you?" she asked, confused.

"Well, yes, but he didn't really explain what it meant," Ne'veran stammered.

The beautiful woman just smiled at him, "He will, he just likes to things in his own time. I've heard so much about you from Bug; I just had to meet you for myself."

"Bug?" Ne'veran asked confused.

She graced him with another smile, "My name is Zerah-Syl. I chose him and started him on his Journey. You may call me Syl."

Syl reached forward and embraced him, her earthy smells filling his nose.

"It's very nice to meet you, Syl," Ne'veran said when he stepped back.

"It's nice to meet you as well, Ne'veran," she said with a smile. "So," she said, "if I'm not mistaken you came here for a reason, yes?"

Ne'veran nodded, "The words 'Go here' appeared on my map. I thought it might have been Father but he's not here."

"That was me, of course," Syl said brightly. "It was easier doing that than making a sign with my insects," she laughed. "I didn't expect to meet you, though. I thought the sign would be enough."

Ne'veran grinned, "It was definitely easier. I don't know much about my magic, so with something like this I felt it prudent to ask."

Syl nodded her understanding, "I must be off," she said abruptly, "It was nice to meet you. Please tell Bug to keep out of trouble. I'd hate for something to happen to my Bug."

With a snap, Syl disappeared and Ne'veran was alone again in the temple. With a sigh, Ne'veran brought himself out of his trance.

  
Chapter Six

Ne'veran opened his eyes, squinting at the bright sun. He stood up brushing the dust from his pants, then wiped the sweat from his forehead.

"It's safe," Ne'veran told Kir'sora once he had gathered his thoughts.

Kir'sora just nodded, trusting his word.

"Will you go tell Hearn the plan while I go talk to Bug? We need to get moving pretty quickly."

Kir'sora nodded again, then walked over to Hearn. Ne'veran watched him sheath his sword before he got to them. Ne'veran opened the map to see the golden letters had disappeared. Map in hand, Ne'veran walked over to Bug and told him he needed to talk. A few minutes later, Ne'veran told him the plan.

"I talked to Syl, she said it should be a safe place for you guys," Ne'veran explained.

"Wait, wait," Bug said, "You talked to Syl, Zerah-Syl, my Goddess? How, when, and why are you calling her Syl?" he asked in a rush, confusion on his face.

Ne'veran paused, unsure about how to answer his questions.

"Uhm, when I went to my God's temple I ran into her. She didn't know I would be there, and she actually told me to call her Syl."

Bug just stared at him open-mouthed, unable to believe what he was hearing.

"She wants you all to go there. She said she didn't want anything to happen to her Bug."

Bug smiled at that, "That sounds like her. She's always worrying about things." Bug looks down at the map. "What will we do there?" he asked.

Ne'veran just shrugs, "I don't know. I guess you'll just wait for a sign."

Bug snorted, "Knowing her it will be a literal sign."

Ne'veran grinned at that. "Probably."

Bug looked over his shoulder, then at the survivors, then back at Ne'veran. "You'll meet us there, right?" he asks.

Ne'veran nods, "There's just something I have to take care of in Landros, then we will be heading your way. If all else fails I will try and get a message to Syl."

Bug then sticks out his hand. Grasping it, Ne'veran looks at his friend.

"Stay safe and try to stay out of trouble. Stay off the roads as much as possible."

Bug nods, then heads back to his group. Ne'veran watches the group set out before joining Kir'sora and the others.

"Everything good?" Kir'sora asks when Ne'veran nears.

Ne'veran nods, "We'll meet up with them later. We need to focus on getting to Landros now. Hearn," he said, turning to him, "are the men ready to march?"

"Yes, sir," Hearn said, saluting.

"Good," Ne'veran said, nodding. "We should be able to reach there by morning if we march through the night. Will that be a problem?"

Hearn looked to his men. Each man shook his head in turn. Hearn turned back to Ne'veran, "No, sir."

Ne'veran looks at the sun then, "Okay, let's go. You stay by me though," Ne'veran told Hearn, "I've got some more questions for you."

Hearn nodded and told his men to move out. After only stopping for a few minutes every few hours to drink and eat some hard bread, they finally reached Landros at daybreak.

The men, whose names Ne'veran learned from his talks with Hearn, looked ready to drop as they made their way through the large city gate. Ne'veran had expected a smaller town, considering the location, yet they were greeted with hundreds of stone buildings, some small, most large. The city was bustling with people already, despite the early time. There were people on every corner, some hawking their wares, others begging for food or coin. Some simply stood watching a troupe of street performers.

As they entered the city, they passed by a small guard shack. "Halt\!" a loud voice said from within. A moment later a bear of a man, with thick arms and a beefy neck stepped through the open doorway.

"We weren't informed of any official visit today," he said, pointing at Hearn's uniform. "Why are you here?"

Hearn stepped up to the officer, "I am a servant of your High King. You do not HAVE to be informed of anything. That we are here is reason enough. Or should I let him know you are suggesting his servants can not go where he has ordered them?"

The poor guard had stepped back so far, trying to get away from Hearn, that his back was against the guardhouse.

"No, no," the guardsman stuttered, "I only meant to say if we had known you were coming we could have prepared some rooms and a meal is all."

Hearn just glared at him. "Get back in your guardhouse and forget we were here," he told him.

The scared man stumbled into the guardhouse and slammed the door. They made it a few streets over before Hearn burst out laughing.

Once he had finished, he wiped his eyes and apologized to Ne'veran and Kir'sora, "Sorry about that. I should have thought about the reaction our uniforms would get. I was nervous when he called, but I figured it was less suspicious if I acted as if we belonged. So, I acted like the first commander I had. I saw him unload on a minor Lord once. He had the poor man in tears when he was done with him," Hearn chuckled at the memory, then turned to his men. "Follow me into that alley," he said, pointing to their right. "Let's change into our off-duty clothes. Less chance someone will stop us."

Ne'veran and Kir'sora stood watch at the entrance to the alley as they got changed. That done, they continued on.

"Excuse me," Ne'veran asked, politely stopping an old woman, "Do you happen to know where Voral's Curiousities is?"

The old woman eyed him up and down. "Mayhaps I do," she said in a gravelly voice, "What do you be wanting with Voral?" she asks.

"A friend of mine said I should meet him if I was in the area, so here we are," Ne'veran smiled at her, hoping it would help.

Looking at Kir'sora and the others, she shook her head. "You I will show to him. They stay here."

Kir'sora shook his head, "If he goes, I go," he told her.

"Do you know the way?" the old woman asked Kir'sora, her knobby hands shaking as she pointed at him.

"Of course not," Kir'sora replied.

"Then it do seem to me that if any of you wish to meet Voral, my demands must be met. Don't that be so?" she asks.

Kir'sora looks to Ne'veran for help but Ne'veran slowly shakes his head.

"I'll go with her," he says slowly. "It's why we've come in the first place. Go, find us an inn," then tosses Kir'sora his coin pouch. "I'll find you later."

Kir'sora looked pained as the old woman took N'everan's arm and pulled him through the crowd. Ne'veran tried to keep track of where they were, then gave it up as hopeless as they wandered seemingly aimlessly around for a while before the old woman led him down a dark alley.

Ne'veran looked back, then followed her. At the end of the alley, the old woman started tapping a rhythm on the wall to her right. A few seconds later, a section of the wall seemed to melt away, revealing a simple red door set into the wall.

"Go on in," the old woman told him, backing away. "He do be waiting for you."

With a final glance at him, the old woman turned and made her way out of the alley. Ne'veran watched her go, then turned to the door. With a deep breath, Ne'veran grabbed the handle, twisted, then stepped inside.

The first thing Ne'veran noticed was how much colder it was inside the room. Glancing around, Ne'veran sees a shop counter filled with various gems, toys, and things he had no words for. Ne'veran walked one of the shelves on his right where he noticed a small figurine of a cat curled up. Ne'veran reached for it to examine it closer. When his fingers touched it, the cat lifted it's head and looked at him, then yawned.

"Ah," a voice behind him said, "I see you've met Drago."

Ne'veran whirled around to see a kindly old man with a long white beard and glasses looking at him. The man's simple blue robe blended with the carpet beneath him.

"She's a sweet girl," the man continued. "She doesn't take to too many people though," he warned.

"Are you Voral?" Ne'veran asked cautiously.

Voral smiled, "And you are Ne'veran. Now that we've officially met, tell me, what can I do for you?"

Voral reached past Ne'veran and gently lifted Drago from the shelf and carried her to the counter, where she yawned again and laid back down. Voral then turns to Ne'veran and folds his hands in front of him, waiting on Ne'veran to answer.

"Well," Ne'veran began, "I'm not really sure where to start. Elder Reis sent me to you. He said you could get me to the Morias."

Voral thought for a moment, "It might be possible. Might. Things have gotten a tad more difficult though."

"What do you mean?" Ne'veran asks, confused.

"Contrary to what your Elder believes, I'm not all-powerful. When you killed that High Elder, congrats by the way, you've put yourself and your friends in a very bad position. The High King wants you captured, alive preferably but dead is good too. The High Elders want to torture you, heal you, then torture you again. That's a direct quote, by the way. And now, to make matters even worse, you show up in a trading city with six of his soldiers you let live, with them still in uniform," the old man said, raising his voice.

Voral stopped, then visibly calmed himself. "Things just went from kind of bad to really bad when you entered the city the way you did."

Ne'veran looked down, ashamed. Voral steps forward and lays his hand on Ne'veran's arm.

"It's okay. We'll figure everything out. There are a few things you need to know first. The Morias are not what Elder Reis thinks."

Ne'veran looks at him confused, "What do you mean?"

Voral leads Ne'veran to another room with a large table with twelve chairs around it, and motioned for Ne'veran to sit. Once Ne'veran was comfortable, Voral continues.

"The Morias is the rebellion."

"Rebellion?" Ne'veran asks, "Against the High King?"

Voral nods, "And the High Elders. Since the High King took power, he has slowly placed his people in the High Elders' Council in Vorgiah, so that now he has full control of them. As you know, an Elder must perform the ceremony for a youth to begin their Journey, that's how the High King was able to use the Elders to look for you. He knew you would be starting your Journey soon, so he hoped to catch you before you could damage his plans."

"What are his plans?" Ne'veran asks.

In response, Voral snaps his fingers and a large map appears on the table, with blue glowing circles at various spots, with one large red circle above Kysmer.

"The red circle," Voral pointed, "is the portal that Alten opened. Even with all his power he can barely manage to keep it open. The other circles," he said, indicating the other blue ones, "are rifts that have appeared because of the spell that he used. Alten is trying to contain the creatures and people that accidentally come through, but it's not enough."

Ne'veran remembered the town that Alten had burned because people had tried to help.

"If it's that much trouble, why doesn't he just close the portal he opened?" Ne'veran asked.

"Because he's not done with it," Voral answered.

"I don't understand, what exactly is he doing?"

"He's bringing an army through," Voral said gravely.

"An army? But he already has an army," Ne'veran said.

"Not like this one," Voral said.

Snapping his fingers again, the map disappeared and a large image of a creature now stood above the table. The creature was humanoid in shape, with four arms and two legs. Two black razor-shaped wings extended from it's back. It's head was hairless, with red slits for eyes.

"This," Voral said, "is a Gorlak. They are bred on a world far different than ours, and are made to serve a master. They have no minds of their own, instead relying on following orders to the letter. They have no fear of injury or even death."

Ne'veran stared at the creature and felt afraid.

"How can we fight something like that?" Ne'veran asks.

Voral shrugs, "A few we can kill, but if we do not stop him before he can completely stabilize the portal, then it won't matter how many people we have. We won't be able to defeat them." Voral waves his hand and the Gorlak disappears.

"That's where you come in," Voral says, sitting across from him and leaning back in the chair. "You are the only one he fears, besides Father, so you're the next best thing. You've got to stop him."

Voral sat there waiting for Ne'veran to speak. A few minutes later, Ne'veran cleared his throat.

"I mean," Ne'veran began, trying to think things through, "his biggest strength, besides his personal power, is the High Elders in Vorgiah, right?"

Voral nodded, letting Ne'veran work things out on his own.

Ne'veran continued, "Would taking them out be enough to get closer to him?" Ne'veran asked.

"They will have to be taken care of first, that's for certain. The High King hasn't really had to do his own dirty work in a while because he relies on the High Elders to carry out his orders. Maybe that will be enough. Then you'll have to get inside Kysmer undetected."

Ne'veran thought about his soldiers waiting with Kir'sora. "I might be able to do that."

"Good, good," Voral said, nodding his head. "I can, of course, provide transportation to your other friends."

"Other friends?" Ne'veran asked, confused.

"The ones Zerah-Syl is harboring, obviously," Voral said, smiling.

Ne'veran shook his head. "I am so confused," he admitted.

Voral laughed out loud and clapped his hands once. Voral's face changed to a much older man with flaming red hair and a thick mustache that hung down with black and green beads on each end. Voral stood up and shook his robe, which transformed into a hide chest piece and simple brown leggings. Shocked, Ne'veran just stared.

"I'm sorry for the disguise, brother," Voral said, stepping around the table and taking Ne'veran's hand. "I like to dress up every now and then. Besides, it's my day to watch the shop, so I figured why not."

"Uhm," Ne'veran stammered. "Voral?"

"Ah, well, my name's actually Garzi, but it's our brother Voral's shop, so we just use his name if someone comes in."

"Are you a God?" Ne'veran asked cautiously.

Garzi nodded, "God and prankster. Not God of pranks, though, Rafel has that honor. You do not want to get on his bad side," Garzi shuddered. "No, I'm the God of messages. Doesn't sound cool but my servants travel the world. Never a dull moment there."

Ne'veran nodded, unsure what to say to that.

"Anyways," Garzi said, stepping back, "I've got a present for you. A 'welcome to the family' gift, in a way." Garzi whistled and Drago flew in on tiny dragon wings, landing lightly on Ne'veran's shouder.

Garzi shrugged, "I was going to give you a sword that would never dull or break, but Drago said she wanted to go with you, and the rules of the shop state you may only receive one item, family or not," Garzi said apologetically.

Ne'veran pet the tiny kitten sitting on his lap.

"That's okay," Ne'veran said, "Seems like a good trade to me."

Garzi stepped to the corner of the room.

"Are you ready to go?" Garzi asked, turning back to him.

Ne'veran picked up the kitten and set her on his shoulder, "What about Kir'sora and the others?"

Garzi waved off his question. "They'll meet you there," Garzi said.

Ne'veran then nods his head. Garzi snaps his fingers and Ne'veran felt himself go weightless, then he seemed to float up through the roof. Once he passed through, he blacked out, the last he can remember seeing was Garzi's grinning face looking up at him and yellling, "Give Zorah my love\!"

When Ne'veran came to, he was laying on a warm bed in what seemed a cozy cottage. The bed took up half of the one-room building, with a small table and chair taking up the rest. Swinging his legs over the side of the bed, he tried to stand, then fell back on the bed with the room seeming to spin around.

"I tried to tell him that travelling that way makes others sick," a voice from the chair apologized.

Looking over, Ne'veran sees Syl perched on the chair, watching him.

"He likes to try new things and he's been experimenting with new ways to travel that aren't portals."

Ne'veran tried to sit up, then put his head in his hands, "I've got a killer headache."

"It should pass soon," Syl said. "Just try not to move too much until it does."

Ne'veran started to nod, then thought better of it.

"Okay. Garzi sends his love, by the way."

Syl brightened. "I have to admit, he's one of my favorite brothers, despite his quirks," she says with a laugh. She smoothed her deep orange dress out.

"Can I ask you a question?" Ne'veran asked.

Syl nodded cautiously, wondering where this was going.

"Have you seen Father lately?"

Syl looked away quickly. "That's kind of complicated," Syl says.

Puzzled, Ne'veran asks, "What do you mean?"

Syl took a deep breath, then turned to face him. "What do you know about this whole God/Goddess situation?" she ask.

Ne'veran shakes his head, "I don't know what you mean."

Syl looked frustrated, "I've never had to explain this before. We can only interact with the human world to a certain extent. Father can do it more than the rest of us, but it costs him even more than it does us."

"What do you mean it costs you?" Ne'veran asks, sitting up fully now that his head wasn't throbbing.

"It's energy. We expend more of our self appearing to humans, or trying to do anything in the human world. If we do too much, we have to disappear for a while to heal and regain our energy. Father has been trying to fight this war by himself for so long, not wanting to involve us or the humans, it's drained him to a point I've never seen and he doesn't have the links to the human world that the rest of us do. So, it takes him ever longer to heal."

Ne'veran sat there, trying to make sense of everything. "So, since I'm the only link he has, that's why he doesn't heal as fast?" Ne'veran asks.

Syl nods, "Exactly. He tries to look out for everyone except himself. When his last son was killed, he was adamant about not claiming another. Until he realized how bad Alten had gotten, and he didn't have a choice."

Just then a butterfly flew through the open window and landed on Syl's shoulder. Syl cocked her head as if listening to it, which, come to think of it, she probably was.

"Apparently your friend Kir'sora is worried about you and is wearing a path in the ground in front of the house," Syl says with a smile. Syl says something in another language and the butterfly flies off.

A moment later Kir'sora pops his head in the doorway, "How are you feeling?" he asks.

"Eh, I've been better," Ne'veran jokes before he realizes that Kir'sora spoke from his mouth instead of his mind. "Can you talk?" Ne'veran says, surprised.

Kir'sora smiles, "Thanks to her," he says, nodding at Syl.

Ne'veran turns to Syl with a questioning look.

Syl just shrugs, "You could have fixed him too, eventually, anyway. Bugs are my specialty but we can do a lot of the same stuff."

"Do I have a specialty?" Ne'veran asks, curious.

"No idea. That's something you'll have to figure it out on your own. Heck, if we all weren't in my own Domain, I couldn't have fixed him anyway. You shouldn't have that problem though, I wouldn't think," Syl says.

Kir'sora comes in and shuts the door, sensing something important.

"What do you mean, Syl?" Ne'veran asks.

"Your Domain is the source of all your magic, that and your servants. Father has a domain, really the first Domain. All of our magic, even our lives, originated with him. What he did with you, claiming you and gifting his magic, you aren't really a servant. Not the way Bug is with me. He magically made you a direct descendant of his. You have all of his magic, and since you were born of that planet, THAT is your domain. That's not to say you couldn't do magic anywhere else, like here, for example," she explains, "it just would't be as powerful as in your world."

Ne'veran sat there stunned. "This is too much," he said and leaned back against the wall.

Syl waited in silence while Ne'veran thought everything through.

"Why would he do something like this?" Ne'veran asks.

"To give your world a chance," Syl says simply.

A few minutes later, after no one had been speaking, there was a knock at the door.

"Come in, Bug," Syl calls.

The door opens slightly and Bug sticks his head in.

"Zorah," Bug says, "I hate to bother you, but could you stop the rain in the meadow by Hearn's camp? They are trying to have combat practice with some of the villagers that wanted to learn but the rain is making it difficult."

Syl smiles and motions Bug forward. When Bug reaches her chair, he drops to one knee and lays his head in her lap as if he had done it a thousand times. Syl runs her fingers through his damp hair.

"Of course, dear Bug," Syl says as she looks to the ceiling for a moment, then back down at Bug and smiles. "There you go, make sure they know holding off the rain today means heavier rain tomorrow," she warns.

Bug looks up at her and smiles. He gives her legs a gentle squeeze, then gets to her feet.

"It's good to see you up," Bug says, nodding at Ne'veran. He then turns to Kir'sora, "You're more than welcome to join us Sama Sora," he says.

Kir'sora nods. "I may join you later, tell the others we will have a meeting at nightfall," Kir'sor says.

Bug nods, bows to Syl, then exits the cottage, gently closing the door behind him.

Ne'veran turns to Kir'sora and asks, "Sama Sora?"

Kir'sora winces, "Yeah, that's just something they caught in my memories. I was showing them some of our training sessions we had on my world, and they saw that on a sign that was in the training area."

"So, they want you to train them?" Ne'veran asks.

Kir'sora nods. "They've approached me about it," he admits.

Ne'veran nods, "If we're to have an army, they've got to have someone to lead them and train them."

A flash of pain crosses Kir'sora's face. "I don't know if I can be that person anymore," he says.

Ne'veran sets his hand on Kir'sora's shoulder, "We need you. We need you to be the leader you were born to be."

Kir'sora sat there, drowning in his memories, his shoulders slumped. Sensing that this was the moment, that a pivotal point of all their lives had been reached, Ne'veran reached out with his mind and touched Kir'sora's.

"Remember," Ne'veran spoke softly into Kir'sora's mind, acting on instinct, not knowing how he was doing it. "Remember what it was like to live. To have a purpose. To know that each day you were doing what you were born to do."

Ne'veran pulled up memories long forgotten, of Kir'sora's first day in the army, how scare he felt, stepping into the unknown, but also how excited he was. He excelled at everything: archery, hand-to-hand combat, as well as with swords and spears. With every test he passed, every obstacle he overcame, he felt closer to his purpose than ever. He enjoyed life with his brothers.

"Celebrate their life by keeping them alive. Pass on their wisdom and knowledge," Ne'veran says.

Kir'sora just sat there, silent tears streaming down his face.

"We can do this together," Ne'veran says aloud.

Kir'sora wipes his eyes, then nods.

"Together."

Through all this Syl had sat there in silence. "I can see why Father chose you," she said softly.

Syl then gets up slowly, and then gives them both a hug and leaves them alone in the cottage. Later that night, when the full moon lit up the sky, the whole group met around a campfire. As they discussed, Kir'sora led the meeting.

"Tonight, we make a choice," he began. Kir'sora looked at each of them in turn, holding their gaze. "Tonight, you decide if you want to make a difference." Kir'sora's strong voice echoed around them. "What almost happened to us is happening all around Thaylan. Villages burning and innocent people being slaughtered. Every day someone dies at the hand of the High King and his Elders. Will you let this continue while you have a chance to stop it?"

Kir'sora looks around and sees Syl standing off to one side with a tall woman with a regal bearing, her silvery hair gleaming in the moonlight.

"In two days we leave to meet up with the rebellion, to try and put a stop to the High Elders. You are free to come with us, or our gracious host can help you get home. Just ask yourself this: will you stand by while the world burns, or will you stand and fight?" he yells.

The men assembled look at each other, then stand.

"We've seen you training some of us, and the respect you show to even the smallest insect," at that Syl gives Kir'sora a fond smile. Ken says, "And we've seen how Ne'veran risked his own life to fight the High Elder for us that he barely knew."

Ken then looks around at the other men, who all nod at him. Ken then says loudly, "We will fight. We will take back our home."

Kir'sora steps over to him and grasps his forearm. "At all costs," Kir'sora says.

Ken nods, looking Kir'sora steadily in the eyes, "Whatever it takes."

Kir'sora then steps back and looks over to Ne'veran, "Your turn."

Ne'veran nods, then steps forward. "Okay, now that -" Ne'veran began, then stopped.

In front of him the fire started to grow, then a figure emerged. The villagers stumbled back.

"Who dares summon me?\!" the figure rumbled.

Dressed in fine robes, hair the color of red wine, he looks around.

"Well?" he demands.

Syl steps forward, then rolls her eyes. "Really, Garzi? You don't have to scare them half to death, they are our friends."

She then points a finger at him and his disguise falls away, revealing his true form. The firelight made his hair look like it was truly on fire.

"Aww," he says with a pout, "I never get to have fun with the humans, Z."

Syl froze, then narrowed her eyes. Garzi swallowed hard, then backed away.

"I mean Syl," he says with a worried laugh.

Then Syl thrust out her right hand, palm out with fingers spread. Once again the figure changed to a smaller man with short black hair, yellow shirt with a bloody handprint, and brown shorts. The figure stopped moving when the transformation completed.

"What are you doing here, Rafel?" Syl asks, voice hard.

The figure, Rafel, just stood there, hands in his pockets, sullenly staring at the fire.

"Well, I just wanted to have a bit of fun is all," he says pouting. "Everyone else is meeting new humans, so I wanted to, too."

He then looks around to the other villagers and tries to smile but they are still keeping their distance. Syl sighs and pinches the bridge of her nose.

"Rafel, this is not the way to go about it. We've told you time and again most humans aren't used to Gods, and when you do things like this it makes things worse."

Rafel starts kicking rocks around, avoiding Syl's gaze. "I know, I'm sorry," he says glumly.

A moment later, another figure steps through the fire and Ne'veran sees Garzi standing there. Garzi looks around at the frightened villagers, then to Syl and Rafel, then scowls.

"What have you done now?" he demands.

Rafel just shrugs and looks away. Syl shakes her head, "Later."

Garzi sighs, then nods. Turning to the villagers, he says, "I'm sorry for the rude entrance. My name is Garzi, I'm the God of messages. As for this young man over here, whom I gather has caused you some manner of discomfort, is my brother Rafel, the God of pranks. So, please forgive him, it's simply his nature."

Spreading his hands, he turns to Kir'sora and Ne'veran. "I bring news. One of my messengers reached our group of Morias near Vorgiah. It's an Elder's school to the south of there in a town called Jordania Hill. The Elders told them there was a commotion in Vorgia a few days ago, but they don't know what about. They were instructed to stay in town and not travel unless accompanied by a High Elder. I think that should be our point of entry," Garzi says, looking at Kir'sora for his opinion.

Garzi snaps his fingers and a table appears with a large map on it. Stepping to the table, he points.

"From here," he says, pointing to their current location, "to Jordania," then pointing to another town to the northeast, "is about a week's walk, but you'll have to double-time it. They've got a new group of Elders coming in from Kysmer in five days, so you need to have whatever you plan on doing done before they get there."

The villagers start talking over each other. "Five days? We'll never make it there before then," one of the men says. Another agrees, "A week is even pushing it, that distance, and no telling the weather, it can't be done."

Syl holds up her hand and the villagers quiet.

"I might be able to help with that," she says.

Nodding at her companion, the woman beside her steps forward. The crowd murmurs when they see her slightly pointed ears.

"My name is Queen Rosalia. I have been asked by Zorah to help you reach where you need to go. Normally only elves may travel the blood wood groves, but I will allow it this once."

"Can the elves not help us fight?" one man calls out.

Queen Rosalia looks to him. "Our race is very old," she says, "We have gotten that way by staying out of the wars of your kind. I am helping now against the advice of my council because I fear what could happen to our world should King Alten prevail, yet even then I am only permitted to do so much."

Ne'veran nods, "We thank you for the help you are able to provide," he says, bowing.

Following suit, Kir'sora also bows, followed by the other villagers. Queen Rosalia nods her head in acknowledgement, then turns to Syl.

"I must get back. You know how to use them."

Syl nods, "Good. I hope good fortune favors you."

With a whirlwind of leaves Queen Rosalia disappears. Kir'sora thanks Syl for bringing the queen, then turns back to the others.

"For everyone that wishes to go with us, let Bug know, then be ready to leave in two days. For everyone else, we wish you the best of luck and great health," he says, dismissing them.

The group started to disburse and Kir'sora and Ne'veran joined the three Gods that were now standing off to one side.

"I want to help," they heard Rafel say as they approached. "Father would let me if he were here."

"Well, he's not," Syl pointed out, "We are. We just don't want you getting hurt."

Rafel crossed his arms and just stared at the fire.

"You know," Kir'sora says, "he actually might be able to help."

Syl looked at him sharply but he continued anyway, holding his hands up in a placating gesture.

"I've been trying to think about how we could get into Vorgiah undetected. Well, Rafel impersonating Garzi gave me an idea. Could you become the High King?" Kir'sora asks Rafel.

Rafel's eyes widened in excitement, "Of course\!" he says hurriedly. "I spent a week in his castle last year doing just that. I was going around telling people what to do, then I'd watch them act confused when the real High King asked them why they were doing it. It was fun," he says with a grin.

Syl and Garzi both groaned at Rafel's revelation, with Garzi cuffing him on the ear. "Not smart, kid."

Rafel shrugs, "It was still fun though."

"As much as I hate to say this," Syl tells Kir'sora, "your plan is a good one. Garzi should be able to get uniforms for any of the men that come with you. Right?" she asks Garzi.

Garzi shrugs, "Shouldn't be too hard. Just need to know how many."

Syl nods, "I'll get the information from Bug."

Ne'veran then steps up and shakes Garzi's and Rafel's hands, "We thank you for all that you are doing. I know that things are not going to be easy, I just wanted you to know that I'm proud to call you family."

Stepping back, Garzi pulls Rafel into a one-armed hug, then they both disappear. Syl looks at Ne'veran with a fake pout.

"And, are you not proud to call me family?" she says with a hurt look, then smiles.

Ne'veran steps forward and envelopes her in a hug. "Of course, sister."

A moment later she steps back and smooths her dress. "Well," she says, looking at the sky, "I think it's time I retire for the night. Don't stay up too late, you two."

With a laugh she disappears in a swarm of butterflies. Ne'veran laughs, then sits beside the fire. Kir'sora sits next to him, staring at the flames.

"Two days isn't much time," Ne'veran says softly.

Kir'sora nods, "I know."

Ne'veran sighs. "Can you really train them to do anything in two days?" Ne'veran asks.

Kir'sora shrugs, "I can try. At least they know the basics already. We'll just have to see."

Kir'sora stands and brushes the leaves from his clothes. "I need to talk with Bug and the others. Are you heading back?"

"In a bit."

Kir'sora nods, then starts back towards the cottages, leaving Ne'veran to his thoughts. Ne'veran sat there for a while, thinking about the coming battle. They had the element of surprise, but in knowledge the High Elders had them beat easily. Their only hope was the Elders in Jordania being able to overthrow the High Elders. Well, that and his magic that he still was not quite sure how to use. The odds were definitely stacked against them.

"Not nearly as much as you think," a tired voice said beside him.

Ne'veran jumped, startled by the voice. Sitting beside him was an older man that slightly resembled Father. They had the same eyes and face, just much older.

"Father?" Ne'veran asked cautiously.

Father gave a tired smile and nodded, his white hair hanging in his eyes.

"Yes, it's me. I look a bit different than the last time you saw me, huh?" Father asked.

Ne'veran looked him over, seeing the wrinkles in his simple brown robe, the tattered sandals, and the unkempt white hair.

"A bit," Ne'veran admitted. "What happened?" he asks.

Father sighs and leans back on his bony hands, staring at the fire.

"Eh, I've stretched myself too thin these last few weeks, used more energy than I should have. Plus, the choosing ceremony takes a lot of energy in and of itself, but it had to be done. My power had to be passed on in case something happens to me."

"What do you mean if something happens to you?" Ne'veran asks.

Father just laughs, his dry voice echoing, "We aren't immortal, son, we can still die. If I use up all my energy so that I can't protect myself, then I could actually die. That's why I don't usually appear anywhere outside of my temple. I didn't get to be this old by being stupid." Father shakes his head, "But, enough about me. You need the information I have, and I can't be here long. There are things you need to know, that I haven't had a chance to tell you. Zerah-Syl has explained about your Domain, right?" Father asks.

Ne'veran nods.

"Good, good. Now, the next step is for you to choose your supplicants, or servants."

"What do you mean 'choose'? I thought that was what the Gods did?" Ne'veran asks, confused.

"Have you not figured that out yet?" Father asks exasperatedly. "When I chose you and named you son, that wasn't me making you a servant, that was me granting my powers to you. You can do everything I can, with practice, anyway. That was the only way I could protect your world, to make you a God of your world. Me doing magic in your world drains me, since it's not my Domain. When you do magic, your world will make it stronger."

Ne'veran sat there, trying to absorb this new information.

"This is a lot," Ne'veran said, his head reeling.

Father nods, "Yes, it is. When you go to Jordania, you must choose some of the Elders. When you do, their own magic will get a boost, like your own. That might be enough for you to win. Might. In turn, you will gain followers in the world. Servants, if you will."

"How do I choose them?" Ne'veran asks.

Father stretches out his hand, laying his cold palm on Ne'veran's forehead.

"It is best to choose them during their coming of age ceremony," Father said in his mind, showing him how to create the doorway. "As that isn't possible at this point, you can replace their current bond with your own. I have already expressed my wishes to your brothes and sisters, so do not fear reprisal by doing this. Once you touch their mind and establish the bond, let your magic flow through them to cement the bond. You will be able to locate them anywhere in the world, or talk to their minds. Everything else you will learn in time. I'll be doing what I can to help on my end, but in this state," he says, gesturing to his body, "I'm afraid it won't be much."

Ne'veran looks at Father, "It looks like you've done too much."

Father laughs, "You may be right." Father groans and slowly stands, "I've got to go, Ne'veran. The pain of being away from my temple is getting worse and I need to conserve my energy."

Ne'veran stands, "Thank you, Father, for giving us a chance."

Father smiles, "Of course. We family have to stick together."

With a slow bow, Father steps back into the darkness and disappears.

  
Chapter Seven

The two days passed in a flurry of activity as people readied themselves to travel and some of them in training with Kir'sora and Hearn. Garzi made a few appearances, bringing various supplies they might need along with the uniforms that they needed. They had five other men joining their party from the villagers that had been at the meeting, the rest deciding to take Syl up on her offer to travel to Naeldron, their home.

Ne'veran and Kir'sora stood off to the side, watching them leave through the red doorway that brought them here. Once everyone was through, Syl motioned them over to the edge of the woods. Her dress now matched the trees behind her, so that it was hard to see her.

"The Queen has set a blood grove tree just beyond the tree line. All you have to do is prick your palm with your knife, then lay your palm on the engraved heart on the tree. Then you'll be transported to where you want to go." Syl raised her hand and the other trees shrank back, revealing a tree with light green bark and what looked like red veins all in the bark, leading to a medium-sized carving of a heart on it's trunk.

"That explains why it's called a blood tree," Kir'sora mutters.

Syl hears this and laughs, "Well, just be thankful she's allowing it. Other mortals have tried without permission. The results weren't pretty."

Ne'veran shakes his head, "What about our equipment?"

Syl nods, "Garzi is taking care of that. He'll be teleporting the whole wagon."

As if he had heard his name, Garzi appeared beside the blood tree. He leaned against it, folding his arms across his chest and smirked.

"Of course I'll take care of it," he said.

Garzi looked excited, with his hair in a ponytail and a dark green kilt and an axe strung across his back.

Syl rolls her eyes, "You're transporting the wagon, not joining in the fight."

Garzi winks at them, "Never know what could happen. Have to be prepared, is all." Garzi spreads his arms wide and rolls his shoulders, "Don't worry, sis," he says, walking past them to check the wagon's supplies, "you're not getting rid of me that easily."

Syl smirks and slaps him on the shoulder.

"Is Rafel ready?" Ne'veran asks, noticing that he wasn't around.

Garzi nods, serious now. "I've stressed how important this is to him. He's spent the last two days watching your High King, making sure he has everything down. He'll be okay." Garzi says, looking at Syl.

Syl nods, still looking worried. Ne'veran looks to where Hearn and Bug were talking to the soldiers and the villagers that had decided to join them. They were all dressed as High King Alten's personal guard, thanks to Garzi getting the uniforms. Hearn was going around checking everyone's clothes and weapons, giving last minute instructions.

"The Elders in Jordania, what do they know about all of this?" Ne'veran asks Garzi and Syl.

They both look at each other, then Garzi answers Ne'veran.

"Not much," Garzi admits, "The way we have all the Morias spread out, we try to keep information to a minimum, in case one group gets compromised. They know to expect a group, but they don't know anything about you. Just that they are to help you do what you came to do. Just leave me and Syl out of it, like our names, and Rafel's. Just tell them you have an impersonator for the High King. They don't need to know more than that."

Ne'veran nods his agreement. The sound of marching and scuffing feet draw their attention to the group joining them. Every off-step Kir'sora hears in the marching makes him wince.

"At least they are trying," Ne'veran mutters with a grin.

Kir'sora grunts. Once they stood in a line, Kir'sora stepped forward.

"You look good," he told them, nodding at each of them. "It was a brave thing, to choose to stay and we thank you." Kir'sora then went on to explain about the blood tree and how they were going to get to Jordania. "I'll go through first, followed by Hearn, then the rest of you, as we have the most combat experience. Ne'veran will come last, as much of our plan rests on him."

Kir'sora salutes them, right fist to breast, then without further talk, pulls his knife, slashes his palm, then walks to the tree and rests his palm on the heart. The heart seemed to glow when his blood touched it, the veins of the tree throbbing as if his blood was in the veins. Kir'sora seemed frozen, not even breathing, as the tree drank his blood. Kir'sora stepped forward, almost as if in a trance, until it seemed he melded with the tree, slowly stepping into the tree.

The whole group watched in fascination and shock as Kir'sora disappeared into the tree, having never seen something like this. A moment later, Kir'sora was gone and the tree pulsed more slowly until the light in the heart faded and the veins were still.

"Well," Hearn said, clearing his throat and looking at the tree nervously, but trying not to show it. "Remember what he said, one after the other."

Hearn walked to the tree slowly, then pricked his palm and placed it on the heart. A few moments later, he too was gone. As if that had stirred them into action, each of the men line up and went one after the other into the tree, with Bug going last.

Before he cut his palm, Syl stepped to him and whispered something in his ear, then stepped back, smiling. Bug smiled back at her, then he too went into the tree. With just the three of them there, Ne'veran turned to Garzi and Syl.

"What are the odds of us actually pulling this off?" he asks quietly.

Syl lays her hand on his arm in a comforting gesture.

"What will be, will be," Garzi says, shrugging. "You've got a good plan and good people. Most people don't have both when trying to pull something like this off, so I'd say you're a step ahead. Just trust your instincts and you'll be fine."

Garzi slaps his forehead, "Blast, I almost forgot\!" Garzi starts rummaging in his pockets, then yelps in pain and yanks his hand back. Holding the pocket open, he peers down in it and scowls, "Well, do ye want to go with him or not? Because if ye bite me again I'll send you home."

A mental snort sounded in their heads, and a clearly female voice said, "Try it."

With the sound of her mental voice in his head, Ne'veran watched as the crystal kitten crawled out of his pocket, much bigger than when Ne'veran had seen her before. Now, it would take two hands to hold her.

She floated down to the ground on see-through wings that melted back into her body when she touched the ground. She then padded softly over to him and looked up at him with ice blue eyes. Ne'veran kneeled down and scratched Drago behind her ears.

"It's going to be dangerous, little one. Are you sure you want to come with me?" Ne'veran asked.

Drago headbutted his palm, then jumped lightly onto his right shoulder.

"Of course I am," she said into his mind, then started licking her paw.

Ne'veran looks at Syl, "Will she be transported with me?"

Syl nods, "Anything on you will. Unlike what Garzi did," she replied, rolling her eyes at Garzi.

Garzi gives them a sheepish grin, "Nothing tried, nothing gained," he says, laughing.

Ne'veran laughs with him, then steps up to the tree.

"I'm not sure how this will feel, so hold on tight, little one," he says to Drago.

Drago digs her claws into his shoulder, piercing his shirt. Ne'veran pulls his belt knife and slashes his palm diagonally. With a deep breath, he sets his bloody palm on the heart of the tree. When his blood touched the heart, the heart began to glow and throb beneath his palm. He was rooted in place as the heart seemed to drink in his blood. Ne'veran began to walk forward, something beckoning him to join the tree.

Once he entered the tree, he could sense other beings there. Ancient beings. Ne'veran kept walking in the darkness, always moving on, the other beings seemingly curious about the newcomers. He could sense once they were near their destination, a warm feeling entering his body.

Suddenly, Ne'veran was standing in the sunlight with his back to the tree. Kir'sora stood off to the side, warily watching Queen Rosalia, who now stood before him.

"I am glad to see you have returned unharmed," she said with a slight smile.

Ne'veran shakes his head, trying to clear the fuzziness from his mind. "What was that?" he asks.

Queen Rosalia touches the trunk of the tree and the veins start moving in response to her touch. "We live a very long time," she says softly. "Unless we are killed, we are immortal. When life begins to wear thin, over the centuries, some of us choose to join our ancestors. They lose themselves in the lifeblood of the trees. Not quite dead, not quite alive. Yet fully aware. The magic they possess could rend a mortal's mind and leave a lifeless husk of a body. I was not entirely sure that even with my permission they would let you through. I am happy to see that I had nothing to worry about."

Ne'veran let out a shaky breath, then felt Drago's claws in his shoulder, reminding him of her presence.

Queen Rosalia looks to Drago and nods, "Well met, Princess. I am also glad to see you unharmed." She then says something in a language Ne'veran could not understand. In response, Drago hissed, arching her back, wings coming out. Queen Rosalia stepped back, a shocked look on her face.

"You forget yourself, Daughter of the Rose," Drago said coldly in their minds.

Everyone froze, waiting on the Queen's reaction. The Queen stood there, taking a moment to compose herself.

"I meant no disrespect," the Queen says, bowing, "I only meant to convey my concern."

"Your concern is noted," Drago says, "You may leave now."

The Queen nods her head, then sets her palm on the tree's heart, then disappears. Drago then settles herself back down on Ne'veran's shoulder.

Sensing that something important had just happened, Ne'veran asks, "Is everything okay? Do we need to worry about her?"

Drago snorts, "Of course, everything is okay. As for Rosalia doing anything, she wouldn't dare." Drago bares her teeth, "Trust me."

Ne'veran feels a certain strength radiating from her. "You're not just a kitten, are you?" he asks softly.

Drago gives him a silly look, tongue lolling out the side of her mouth. "Now, what gives you that impression?" she says, then closes her eyes.

Seeing he wasn't going to get a better answer, Ne'veran walks over to Kir'sora.

"I've got a perimeter to set up," Kir'sora said when he approached. "The Queen was nice enough to point us in the right direction," he said, pointing at a road a few yards off. "If we follow that road west, it should lead us to Jordania. If we keep going we'd be at Vorgiah, so at least it's a straight shot. Haven't seen Rafel yet, but there's still time."

Ne'veran nods, "We won't need him until we head to Vorgiah anyway. I don't think it would be a good idea to have him wondering around down here as the High King."

Kir'sora grins, "That would be interesting though."

Ne'veran laughs, "Definitely."

Kir'sora and Ne'veran both walk to the group of soldiers standing near the road. They stood in formation, their hands behind their back. Some of them looked nervous but they tried not to show it.

"Okay, men," Kir'sora says, "It should be about a day's walk to Jordania, according to the Queen. Then we have three days to get our High Elder situation taken care of. So we'd better get to it."

Kir'sora nods and they rush to get their gear that Garzi had left for them around the tree, with each person's name on their packs. Everyone had a pack, including Ne'veran.

Ne'veran picks up his pack and the only items were the simple brown robes of an elder and the medallion showing his status. Ne'veran grinned, Garzi thinks of everything. Ne'veran changes into his robes and stuffs his other clothes and drops the pack back on the ground. Beside him, Kir'sora changes into an officer's uniform, complete with officer's sword.

"How did that sword fit in there?" Ne'veran asks.

Kir'sora shrugs, "I don't question the Gods."

Ne'veran nods, "Very good point."

Once everyone was ready, they began the march to Jordania. Mile after mile they marched, finally getting the rythmn as they marched together. They passed people in fields that were working, and watched as they dropped their tools and dropped to the ground bowing, not rising up until they passed.

Finally, a town came in to sight off to their left. A small village with small houses in a circle around two buildings, with a well between them. Off in the distance, Ne'veran could make out more people working the fields, an oxen pulling a till, churning up the earth. They stopped right outside the village, not sure where to go.

While they were standing there, the house's door on the left of the well opened and an Elder stepped out. The new Elder had sun-bleached blonde hair with a reddish tint, green eyes, and a kindly smile. Walking towards them, the Elder takes in their dust-covered uniforms.

"And what can I do for the King's men on this fine day?" he asks. "My name is Brother Elam, and it's a pleasure to meet you."

Kir'sora and Ne'veran step forward and introduce themselves. "Is there somewhere we may go to chat?" Ne'veran asks.

Elam nods, "Of course. Your men are welcome to drink from the well, as well. I'm sure they must be parched."

The soldiers thank him and crowd around the well while Elam leads them into the house he had come out of. When they entered the house, they saw twelve Elders gathered around a large table.

"Gentlemen," Elam said once he had closed the door, "our guests have arrived."

The Elders turned to them. "We are sure it's them?" one of the older Elders asked.

Elam nods, "I am. He bears a mark with the magic," he says, pointing at the medallion Ne'veran wore.

A light touch of air lifted the medallion and a symbol in light showed on the surface briefly. Satisfied, the medallion dropped back in place.

The older Elder looks to Kir'sora, "Go talk to the guards in the house next door, and coordinate with them. We will take care of the magic side of things."

Kir'sora glances at Ne'veran. Ne'veran nods and Kir'sora leaves. Brother Elam beckons for Ne'veran to have a seat, then he leans back against the wall.

The older Elder that had spoken before leans forward. "I'm Cal. I'm the leader of this here group. Do you know what you've joined here?"

Ne'veran looks at him steadily and nods. Cal looks hard at him for a moment.

"Good. This isn't a game. You could very well die. We've been instructed to teach you what we can, and in return you'll help us overthrow the High King's Elders, now that they've taken over Vorgiah."

Ne'veran looks around at the other Elders, seeing the doubt on their faces that he could help them do anything, much less help them fight much stronger Elders.

"I can help you, you just may not like how it has to happen."

The Elders look at each other, confused.

"What do you mean?" Cal asks.

"There's only one way to make you strong enough to defeat the Elders. That's to replace your current Gods with a new one."

Cal looks puzzled, "Replace them? I didn't think that was possible."

Ne'veran nods, "It's normally not, we've been granted special permission."

"By whom?" Elam asks.

Ne'veran looks at him. "Father."

Elam looks surprised, "You've spoken to him?"

Ne'veran nods, "I'm the one that High Elder Neir has been looking for."

Cal grunts, "Makes sense. They've been stirred up in the city lately, but back to this business of replacing our Gods. How does that work? And who exactly are we supposed to replace them with?"

Ne'veran winces, knowing how this was going to sound. "You'll replace them with me."

The Elders sat back, shocked, clearly not expecting his answer.

"When Father chose me, he made me a God imbued with his powers, with this world as my Domain, which means the magic drain is not nearly as severe as a normal God's. I've been granted a one time pass to choose each of you, so that we may all have a chance against the High Elders. You'll get a boost to your own magic, as my magic is much older than your Gods. That boost will make a difference," Ne'veran said more confidently than he felt.

"Is that even possible?" Brother Elam asks Cal.

Cal looks thoughtful, "I gues it could be. There is much we don't know about the Gods or how their magic works. That includes the bond between God and man. So, yes, it might be." Cal looks at Ne'veran, "And you're sure of this?"

Ne'veran nods. Cal then pushes his chair back and comes before Ne'veran and kneels before him.

"Then choose me first, Son of Father, so we may put this to the test."

Ne'veran puts his right hand on Cal's forehead, letting instinct take over. Ne'veran could feel Cal's bond to the Cat Goddess Basha, the bond was like a thread leading from his mind to her Domain. Feeling his magic, Basha speaks into Ne'veran's mind.

"He is yours, brother," she says.

Ne'veran sends his thanks and with a mental cut, severs Cal's link to Basha. Then, with barely a thought, Ne'veran links his mind to Cal's and completes the Bond. Pulling his hand back, Ne'veran exhales. Cal's eyes were open wide.

"She called you brother," he whispers in amazement, "You really are a God."

Ne'veran sighs, "Yeah, I'm still getting used to that. I just need your help so I can learn how to use my magic and actually help in the fight."

Cal nods, "Of course. We only have another day, but we will teach you all we can. Maybe enough to survive."

Cal motions each of the Elders forward, so that Ne'veran could bond with each of them. After each bond, Ne'veran began to feel different, like he could hear a bit better and things began to look sharper. Ne'veran made a mental note to ask Father about it. Once everyone was bonded, Ne'veran looked around.

"Do you feel any different?" Ne'veran asks them.

They nod slowly, each seemingly lost in thought.

"Well," Ne'veran asks, "what is it?"

Cal sat thinking about how to answer. "In our time as Elders, we've felt many types of magic. We're able to identify what kind of magic it is, with practice. We hesitated because our magic has changed."

"Changed?" Ne'veran asks, "Changed how?"

"Our magic is mixed with Chaos now," Cal says, "Your magic is pure chaos. This is the boost that Father must have told you about. Ancient magick indeed."

"Does this mean you won't be able to teach me how to use it?" Ne'veran asks.

Cal shakes his head, "The basics are the same, I would think. We will have to see." Cal holds out his left hand. "I want you to close your eyes," he instructs Ne'veran. Once his eyes are closed, Cal continues, "I am going to channel magic, see if you can tell what magic I'm using. Each type has a flavor, we like to say. You'll get used to feeling all the types eventually, but for now, let's see what you can do."

Cal waited for a moment, then created a ball of ice in his hand. Ne'veran feels the welling up of magic in front of him.

Ne'veran shakes his head, "I can't."

He opens his eyes and sees the rotating ball of ice in the Elder's hand.

"All magic has a kind of flavor," Cal says, "With practice you will be able to distinguish the kinds of magic being channeled around you." Cal closed his fist and the ball of ice disappeared. "But that is beyond the scope of what I can teach in a day. Now, magic works because we exert our will on the world around us. In simpler terms, our magic is a physical manifestation of our will. Now, hold out your hand."

Cal held out his left hand, palm facing up, and Ne'veran copied him.

"Close your eyes and imagine, if you will, that there is a ball sitting on your hand. Think of the weight of it, the color. Heck, even the smell. Can you see the ball in your mind?"

Ne'veran nods, seeing a brown ball in his mind's eye.

"Does the ball exist?" Cal asks.

"Yes," Ne'veran states, fully believing it.

Still concentrating on the floating ball, he hears the other Elders start to murmur among themselves. Ne'veran opens his eyes and sees a slowly rotating brown ball above the palm of his hand, just like they had kicked around his village when he was younger. Ne'veran smiles, proud of his accomplishment. Cal looked slightly troubled.

"Can you toss it to me?" Cal asks.

Ne'veran flicks it to him with a thought. Cal catches it, startled.

"It's real\!" he exclaims, tossing it from hand to hand, squeezing it.

Ne'veran looks at the other Elders, confused. "That's what you wanted, wasn't it?"

The Elders looked at each other, then Cal spoke up, "It takes a lot of magical power and focus to physically manifest an object as you have. Even something as simple as a ball. I thought at first it might have been insubstantial, but when I caught it, I was truly shocked."

"Maybe it's because this is my Domain?"

Cal nods, "It very well could be. I think our best course of action would be to hae you train with Elder Svoren and Elder Gregson," he says, indicating the two Elders on his right side. "I am aware that time is precious, so they will be able to train you the most effectively in the time we have."

Ne'veran nods at the Elders, "I'll do my best. I just need to speak to my companions, then we can begin."

Elder Svoren nods his head in agreement, "As you wish."

Ne'veran stands up and bows to the Elders, then heads out of the building. Stepping out, Ne'veran sees Kir'sora leaning with his back against the grey brick well with a wooden cup in his hand. Ne'veran heads over to him.

"Everything okay?" Ne'veran asks.

Kir'sora nods, "Yes. Hearn has everyone in the field behind us doing drills, so they can hopefully pass as the High King's soldiers. For the short time we need them to, anyway. Rafel showed up about ten minutes ago. Thankfully, he showed up in his regular form, not in his High King look. That would have been interesting." He chuckled. "So, what's going on with them?" Kir'sora asks, nodding towards the building where the Elders were still waiting for Ne'veran.

"Well, after a magical demonstration, they are ready to train me for the two days we have."

Kir'sora nods, "That's good. So then, what's the plan after?" he asks.

"They are due in Vorgiah in the morning three days from now. Our story is the High King stopped here for a surprise inspection of his Elder school, then decided to travel with them to Vorgiah, since that's where he was headed anyway. Once there, Rafel will arrange a meeting with the High Elder council, bringing along the Elders here and me, of course. While you and the soldiers secure the city, as much as you can."

Kir'sora scowls, "I'd still feel better if I were wih you."

Ne'veran shrugs, "It wouldn't make sense. Elders don't have bodyguards. Besides, you need to lead the other men."

Kir'sora sighs, accepting the point. Shading his eyes, he looks at the sky.

"There's a few hours until nightfall," he says as he drains the cup in his hand, then sets it on the ledge of the well. "Guess I'd better go talk to Hearn and make sure everyone's on the same page with how it has to go." Kir'sora wipes his mouth, "I guess it wouldn't be too bad for me to get some training in as well, since they are going to have you training."

Clapping Ne'veran on the shoulder, he heads to where Hearn was talking to the soldiers. "Have fun," Kir'sora calls over his shoulder.

Ne'veran watches him go, then heads back inside to begin his training.